
   Mink Is for a Minx
   Death of a Dead Man
   by Brett Halliday
   1.
   Michael Shayne jammed on the brakes of his car, his eyes glinting with sudden anger. In the dark summer night the other car was slanted across the highway in his path at the center of the small drawbridge. Shayne got out of his car and strode toward the stalled vehicle.
   The car was a four-year-old black sedan. For a moment Shayne thought there was no one in it. Then he stepped closer and saw a figure slumped over the wheel. The car was jammed against the guard rail of the small bridge. Apparently the driver had passed out for some reason, perhaps a heart attack, and the car had slewed across the bridge and been stopped by the guard rail.
   The car’s engine was still running, giving it even more the look of a tragic accident. But it was not an accident. It was a trap. Shayne, becoming careless, reached through the conveniently open car window to raise the head of the slumped man. The man came to life and gripped the detective’s arm.
   A second figure appeared from the shadows of the drawbridge. Shayne had a glimpse of a thin, dark-haired man with a mustache. With his arm held fast Shayne could not pull free in time to defend himself.
   The second man hit him on the back of the head. The blow was the work of an expert. Shayne slumped to the roadway of the bridge.
   Shayne was stunned but not quite knocked out. That and the fact that the two men were in a hurry saved his life.
   The other man had gotten out of the car, and Shayne had a confused recollection of seeing both men move to the edge of the bridge and back again before they slipped their hands under his armpits, lifted his big frame clear of the road, half-carried, half-dragged him to the edge of the bridge, and threw him over. The exertion wrenched a grunt from one of them.
   Shayne hit the water hard. He went under. He went down and down until his feet sank into mud. For a second or two he lay unmoving on the bottom. Then, revived by the water but still groggy, he kicked free of the mud and swam upwards, fighting against the tug of the current. His lungs seemed on fire and he was afraid for a moment that he would never make it.
   He came up gasping and choking. It was pitch dark. Vaguely, he saw far-off lights that could have been the bridge in the distance. In the narrow channel of Great South Bay the tide was coming in fast. He had been carried half a mile.
   Painfully, he struck out for shore. He seemed to swim weakly for hours. At last his feet touched a slippery rock and the loose gravel of a sloping beach. He fell three times before he reached solid ground and collapsed. For a long moment he lay stretched out flat on his stomach, barely breathing.
   2.
   Lucy Hamilton told Mike Shayne over the intercom at nine-ten that morning that Alistair Finch was on the long distance phone— calling from Westhampton, Long Island. Shayne’s pert, brown-eyed secretary sounded awed. She knew Shayne had known Alistair Finch a long time, and that they were old friends, although they had not seen each other for many years. But the name of the industrialist still awed Lucy.
   “He sounds very nervous, Michael,” Lucy said over the intercom.
   “Finch is always nervous,” Shayne said. “It goes with all that money and success.”
   “That wouldn’t make me nervous,” Lucy said.
   Shayne laughed.“Okay, Angel, put him on,” he said, and reached for the desk phone and uncradled the receiver.
   The industrialist’s voice was tense with anxiety. “Mike? Thank God I got you. Can you fly up right away?”
   “Whoa, Ally, one thing at a time. Fly where? Remember, I’m a Miami detective!” Shayne said.
   There was a sound like a deep breath at the other end of the telephone.“Sorry, Mike. I’m at the Westhampton house, the beach cabana. I have guests.”
   Shayne saw a mental picture of Alistair Finch’s “beach cabana.” He had been a house guest there once ten years ago. The “cabana” was three stories high, had thirty-two rooms, and looked like a Newport mansion covered with ivy — which, in fact, it was. Its only claim to being a beach house was its location — on a slight elevationoverlooking the water.
   Finch had spent a sizeable sum just on a sunporch extension.
   “Tell me the story,” Shayne said.
   “There isn’t any story, Mike,” Finch’s voice said. “Just a pretty gruesome fact. I found a body in my garden. The police say he was murdered.”
   “How do they figure that?” Shayne asked.
   “He had been stabbed three times in the back.”
   “I’d be inclined to agree with the police,” Shayne said. “Who did it?”
   Finch sighed far away.“I don’t know. I’ve got police all over the grounds. You’ve got to help me, Mike. I know we’ve been out of touch for a good many years. But when this happened, I thought of you at once.”
   “I’ll bet you did,” Shayne said drily. “Who is the man — a guest?”
   “No, Mike. No one here has the least idea who he is, except—” Finch’s voice hesitated.
   “Do the police suspect you?” Shayne asked, abruptly.
   “No,” Finch said. “Mike, the man is a total stranger. He doesn’t have any identification papers on him. No one knows who he is—”
   Shayne was more acutely aware of the hesitation this time.“Except who?”
   “Except me, Mike. But no one knows that I’ve ever set eyes on him before. At least, no one in this country.”
   “Who is he?”
   Finch was very nervous now.“A man I knew in Italy, Mike — during the war. He was a Partisan leader in a unit I worked with.”
   “How did he get to your beach house?”
   “I don’t know that either,” Finch said. “The last time I saw Pietro Corelli was in Italy in nineteen forty-four. That was nineteen years ago.”
   “You had no idea he was in this country?” Shayne asked.
   This time there was a very deep breath on the other end of the line.“Mike, I didn’t even know he was alive.”
   “You mean you hadn’t heard from him — or anything at all about him — in nineteen years? That’s not so unusual is it, Ally?”
   “Mike,” Finch said, “Pietro Corelli was killed by the Germans in nineteen forty-four.”
   Shayne let a long count of ten pass through his mind. Finch seemed to be doing the same thing on the other end of the telephone. Then Finch spoke again.
   “I saw them take him,” Finch said, “so did two of my men. He was shot two days later. There’s no doubt at all in my mind he’s been dead for nineteen years.”
   “Until a few days ago,” Shayne said.
   “Mike, I can’t take anything like this. You know how important my business is and the kind of company I run. Mostly Government work. I’ll pay you well, Mike.”
   Shayne considered his work calendar. He could hire people to cover two routine jobs. One major job he could let go for a few days.
   “I’m on my way, Ally,” he said.
   Shayne took the first jet north after arranging for his work to be covered. Before he left he asked Miami Police Chief Will Gentry to give him a letter of introduction to the New York Police. Shayne had met New York State Police Lieutenant Edwin“Ed” Masters ten years ago in Westhampton, but Will Gentry was in a position to help him secure further cooperation from the New York authorities.
   He also stopped off at Tim Rourke’s office to see if he could get a file on Alistair Finch. Fortunately the man was of sufficient national importance to be of reference-file interest to a good many newspapers.
   Shayne read the material on Finch on the jet north. He knew Finch, but it had been many years, and he wanted up-to-date details. Finch was president and owner of a large chemical company. He had inherited the company and his money. What Finch had not inherited was a special chemical additive for rocket fuel. The chemical was vital, and Finch had grown much richer since the war.
   Finch was also a war hero. The industrialist had been a Major in the OSS behind enemy lines for most of the war. That would be where this Pietro Corelli came in, Shayne told himself. Finch had a perfect war record, and after the war had come up with his special rocket additive. Finch had a full partner— Kurt Berger, a German.
   Finch also had many friends, but only a few close ones. Finch had always mixed business and pleasure, and Shayne expected that the industrialist’s business and personal friends would be at the Westhampton house.
   Shayne studied the names and backgrounds of the four or five of Finch’s friends who were mentioned in the material Rourke had given him. By that time his jet landed at Idlewild.
   The redhead found a car waiting for him at the airport, and smiled when he saw it. With all his money, Finch had not sent a chauffeur with the car. The industrialist had remembered that Shayne preferred to drive himself.
   He drove the car into New York City to Center Street, and showed a high-ranking police officer Gentry’s letter. He left the building with a letter in his wallet to the State Police in Suffolk County.
   Shayne drove out of the city through the Queen’s Midtown Tunnel and along the Long Island parkways. The weather was clear and warm in July. He drove with his window open and the wind blowing his thick red hair.
   By the time he reached Patchogue it was night and dark. The salt odor of the sea was pleasant in the night. Shayne watched the moon rise to the south over Fire Island. Perhaps that was why his guard was down as he turned onto the drawbridge from Westhampton to Westhampton Beach and saw the black sedan across the roadway.
   3.
   The moon was high above the dunes when Shayne at last staggered to his feet. He stumbled through the sparse shrubbery and knee-high tangles of prickly thorns, keeping close to the shoreline until he came to the single road of Westhampton Beach. He walked slowly along the road until he reached the“cabana” of Alistair Finch.
   The big house loomed large in the night. It was blazing with light. There was a police car at the door. Shayne saw his own car, the one Finch had sent for him. They were obviously looking for him. He walked in and fell into a chair in the giant hallway.
   “Mike!” Alistair Finch cried. “What happened?”
   “I went for a moonlight swim,” Shayne said wryly.
   His grey eyes searched all the faces in the room. He did not see the men. There were seven people in the house, in addition to the police.
   “What happened, Shayne?” a State Police officer said.
   Shayne recognized Ed Masters. Ten years was a long time, and Masters was heavier and a captain now. But it did not surprise Mike Shayne that Alistair Finch would rate the State Police, and a captain.
   Shayne greeted the police officer and told him what had happened. Masters went away to give the descriptions of the two men who had tried to kill Shayne to his men.
   “Who do you think they were?” Finch asked.
   “You tell me,” Shayne said. “Who knew I was coming?”
   “They don’t sound familiar, Mike,” Finch said.
   “Two more men nobody knows,” Shayne said. He had the strange feeling that Finch was lying. The redheaded detective tugged on his left earlobe and narrowed his grey eyes. “Get me a large cognac, a change of clothes, and then tell me your story.”
   In Finch’s study, Shayne, a Martel in his hand and his clothes changed, listened to Finch’s story. The study was a large, book-lined room furnished with leather and polished wood. The wide window overlooked the sea where a white line of surf was clear in the moonlight.
   “That’s all there was, Mike,” Finch said. “We were there behind the German lines up near Milan. Corelli was our Partisan leader. Gerry Olney, Marty Maltz, and myself saw them capture him. There was nothing we could do. Corelli had planned a real suicide mission for two days after he was taken.
   “Maybe he was getting careless. We heard a few days later that he had been shot. Of course, there were the usual charges of betrayal. Those Partisans were mostly Communists and they always said we betrayed them. We were cleared.”
   “What do you think Corelli wanted here?” Shayne said.
   “I can’t imagine,” Finch said.
   “Does anyone in this house have an idea?” Shayne said. “By the way, who are your guests?”
   “Not one of them knew Corelli except me,” Finch said. “There are five guests: Kurt Berger, of course; Max Helpman, one of my vice-presidents and an old friend; Sally Helpman, Max’s wife; Paul Macadam, you know him, the yacht man who spends a lot of time in Florida; and Myrna Mix the actress. My wife too, of course.”
   Shayne went down the list in his mind. All the names had been prominent in Tim Rourke’s file on Finch. They were all old friends of Finch.
   “Kurt Berger’s your partner?” Shayne said.
   “That’s right. We own all the companies together. I run the American operation and Kurt has charge of the European companies.”
   “Did you tell Masters that you knew Corelli?”
   “Yes,” Finch said. “I told him you told me to.”
   Shayne knew he had not told Finch to say that. But he let it pass for the moment.“Do the others know about Corelli now?”
   “I told them when I told Masters,” Finch said.
   Shayne nodded and said,“Those other two men who were with you when Corelli was captured. Has anyone talked to them since you called me in Miami?”
   “Olney and Maltz? I don’t think so. I didn’t mention their names to anyone,” Finch said.
   “Where are they?” Shayne asked.
   “I’m not sure,” Finch said. “We lost touch. Olney was my radioman, a Sergeant. Marty Maltz was my second in command, a Captain. They were both good men, Shayne.”
   “Men can change,” Shayne said. “Let’s talk to your guests.”
   4.
   The five guests and Finch’s wife sat in the giant living room. It was late and they seemed annoyed. Finch’s wife was a tall blonde half his age. She was his third wife. Her name was Laura, and she seemed to be rather friendly with Kurt Berger, her husband’s partner. She sat perched on the arm of Berger’s chair.
   Shayne came directly to the point.“Masters told me that the coroner fixed the time of death at somewhere around nine o’clock last night. Berger, where were you?”
   “Swimming,” Kurt Berger said. “I like to swim at night.”
   Berger was a tall, blond man of about forty-five. He was still handsome and had all his hair. The partner of Finch was Finch’s best friend, according to Shayne’s information.
   “You swam alone?” Shayne asked.
   “Laura was with me,” Berger said. Berger smiled a wolfish smile. “Mrs. Finch, I mean, Shayne. We swam from about eight o’clock until past midnight. Right, Laura?”
   “Yes,” Laura Finch said.
   “That was a long swim,” Shayne said.
   “We walked on the beach, too,” Berger said. “A long walk. Correct, Laura?”
   “Yes,” Laura Finch said.
   She looked at her husband who was red in the face by now. Shayne made a note of that in his mind. He turned to Helpman.
   “How about you, Helpman?”
   Max Helpman was nervous. The short, dark man fidgeted on the edge of his chair. Helpman was almost completely bald. His tall, thin, acid-looking wife sat beside him and glared at Shayne.
   “Max was with me all night,” Sally Helpman said. “We were in our room. Do you want to know what we were doing?”
   “Shut up, Sally,” Max Helpman said. “We were in our room, Shayne. Sally didn’t feel well and we went up right after dinner.”
   “Anybody else see either of you?” Shayne said.
   “I don’t think so,” Helpman said.
   “We don’t usually have observers in our bedroom,” Sally Helpman said.
   A tall, grizzled man standing near the yawning fireplace said,“I saw you Max, about ten o’clock. You were out in the garden.”
   “Now you listen to me, Paul Macadam,” Sally Helpman began.
   Paul Macadam had the shoulders of a truck driver. A man in his fifties, he had the lined and leathery face of a man who had spent most of his life in the open air. His hair was grey, and his blue eyes were hard and amused as he looked at Sally Helpman. The tall, hard-faced woman stared at Macadam.
   “I came down for some air,” Max Helpman said. “I forgot that. I wasn’t down more than ten minutes.”
   “Ten minutes is enough,” Shayne said drily. “How about you, Macadam? If you saw Helpman, you were down here yourself. Suppose you tell me a little more about that.”
   Paul Macadam nodded.“I was down here. In fact I was down from after dinner until past midnight. I like to sit outdoors. No one saw me. I saw Max, and later I saw Berger and Laura, well after midnight. They did look like they had been swimming. But no one saw me. No alibi.”
   Shayne looked toward Sally Helpman.“Does that mean you were alone while your husband was down here? Did you see anyone?”
   “I remained in my room, Mr. Shayne,” Sally Helpman said coldly.
   The tall woman had square shoulders and a low, throaty voice. Shayne liked voices like that. The tall woman was a cool person, and yet, very sexy.
   Myrna Mix, the actress, giggled.“This is fun! Ask me my alibi, Mr. Shayne. Go ahead.”
   Myrna Mix was over forty now, and she had never been a beauty. She was a real actress, with all the hard life and hard work and hard insides it was difficult not to think about when you called anyone that. She was tall and going to fat. She had always been a big, mannish woman. The giggle sounded ridiculous from her.
   “Where were you?” Shayne said.
   “I drove into town to the summer theater,” Myrna Mix said. “I didn’t stay for the performance, though. That much I can’t do for my admirers. They’re such bad actors. So no one saw me from eight o’clock until I arrived back here about ten-thirty. Ally saw me then.”
   “Eight o’clock until ten-thirty to drive five miles?” Shayne said.
   “I made a few stops,” Myrna Mix said. “I drink, you know.”
   “No one saw you?”
   “Not until Ally did.”
   Shayne looked at Finch.“Then you were downstairs, too?”
   “Me?” Finch said in surprise. “I took a walk, Mike.”
   “On the beach?”
   Finch reddened.“No, along the road. Mike,I called you!”
   “So you did,” Shayne said. He studied all of them for a long minute. “Well, it seems that any one of you could have killed Pietro Corelli.”
   5.
   The next day Mike Shayne found out that not only could all the guests have killed Corelli, but that they all could have known the dead Italian. Finch was simply the only one whoadmitted having known Corelli.
   Shayne spent the morning studying the murder scene in the garden. He went to town and read the Coroner’s report. The only unusual facts in the report were that Corelli’s clothes were all new, and seemed to be Italian. The clothes had been wet and had smelled of salt water.
   It was in the afternoon that Shayne found out that all the guests had been either in Italy or in the war at the right time.
   “Yes, I was in the Wehrmacht,” Kurt Berger said. “I was a Hauptman — a Captain of Signals. I was exonerated of Nazism.”
   “It figures,” Shayne said. “Where did you serve?”
   “Norway, Poland, Russia, France, and Yugoslavia.”
   “You got around for a Captain of Signals,” Shayne said. “Italy?”
   “No, not Italy,” Berger said.
   Helpman admitted having been in Italy.“I was in Finch’s OSS outfit. I thought you knew. I didn’t happen to be on the Corelli mission.”
   “Tell me about the betrayal charge,” Shayne said.
   “The Partisans accused Finch, Olney, and Maltz,” Helpman said. “One or all. There was no proof, so the charges were dropped. It came damned close to a court-martial, though. The story sounded fishy.”
   “I didn’t know it was that serious,” Shayne said.
   “No one does,” Helpman said. “Ally likes being a war hero. Besides, if there had been any real proof at the time, he’d be in trouble with the Government now. And his business would be hurt badly. His friends in Washington have covered up even the accusation.”
   Finch burst into the room at that point. The industrialist was angry.“You’re a liar, Max! Those Commie Partisans accused everyone! What about Gerry Olney and Marty Maltz!”
   Helpman said to Shayne,“The Partisans admitted it could have been any of the three of them.”
   “And how about you?” Finch said.
   “I wasn’t on that mission,” Helpman said.
   Finch laughed.“No? But you came up with a message twice. I remember very well. You could have seen Corelli and turned him in. You had plenty of chance while you were crossing the lines!”
   “I never saw Corelli!”
   “You knew his name,” Finch said. “Maybe they picked you up and you talked, so they let you go.”
   “That’s ridiculous,” Helpman said.
   Shayne did not believe Berger when Berger said he had never been in Italy. He asked Captain Masters to check with the German Government. Masters agreed, and said he would try, but that would take time. Masters had located Olney and Maltz, but had not reached them yet. Olney lived in Connecticut, and Maltz in Chicago.
   The other three guests turned out to have interesting pasts also. Myrna Mix, the famed actress, had been touring Italy in a USO Show at the exact time of Corelli’s capture. Her show had gone close to the front lines and had remained on tour for months.
   Sally Helpman had been a nurse in a field hospital near the front lines. She had met Max Helpman during the last year of the war, and they had been married by a chaplain at the hospital.
   Paul Macadam had been a Lieutenant Colonel with an Intelligence unit just behind the lines across from Milan.
   “All right,” Macadam admitted, “I knew about Corelli. In fact I knew about the charge of betrayal. But I never met Corelli. As a matter of fact, I can tell you something more. When Corelli was captured, a hundred thousand good American dollars went with him!”
   Alistair Finch was furious when Shayne faced him with the omission in his story. Finch had said nothing about the money.
   “Look, Mike,” Finch said, “there wasn’t any money. I’m sure of it.”
   “Maybe,” Shayne said.
   Finch was beginning to smell very bad to the redheaded detective. It would not be the first time that a guilty man had hired him to try to make himself look innocent.
   “Damn it, Mike,” Finch said, “those Partisansalways said every mistake was a betrayal, and that there was money involved. If Corelli had that kind of money from us, I’d have known it. If any money changed hands, it was the Partisans who profited. Those Partisans probably betrayed Corelli themselves. They’d have betrayed their own mothers for a hundred dollars.”
   Shayne was about to point out that Finch was protesting too much when Captain Masters came into the room. Masters was grim.
   “Anyone here know a Martin Maltz?” Masters said.
   “I do,” Finch said.
   “You did,” Masters said. “We just found his body out in the bushes.”
   6.
   Marty Maltz had been stabbed. The coroner said it was with the same kind of weapon that had been used in the earlier slaying. A long, thin knife. No one knew what Maltz had been doing in Westhampton.
   “I didn’t know he was anywhere near,” Finch said.
   “Neither did I,” Helpman said.
   “I did not know the man,” Berger said.
   “Sure you knew Marty, Kurt,” Finch said. “I introduced you a few years ago when Marty came to the reunion of the old outfit. Remember?”
   “Of course,” Berger said. “I had forgotten. He seems to have changed.”
   “Lost most of his hair,” Finch admitted.
   “He’s lost more than that now,” Captain Masters said grimly.
   After they had taken Maltz’s body away, Shayne stood on the curving driveway of the big house and tugged on his left earlobe. The big detective ran his hand through his thick red hair. None of the guests, of course, had a real alibi for this murder. Why had Maltz been killed?
   “Why did Maltz come here?” Shayne asked Masters.
   “We were looking for him,” Masters replied. “Our check found he was away on a trip. His wife thought he was in New York on business.”
   “What about the other man, Olney?” Shayne said.
   “He doesn’t know anything. Connecticut police checked,” Masters said. “He hasn’t been away from home in six months.”
   “Maybe they didn’t ask the right questions,” Shayne said.
   Shayne decided to visit Gerry Olney, ex-sergeant of OSS. He borrowed the car from Finch and drove off early next morning. The drive across Long Island was uneventful. But Shayne enjoyed the changing scenery as he passed from the marsh and sand of the South Shore to the flat farmlands further inland and then to the wooded and hilly North Shore.
   He drove into Port Jefferson a half an hour before the ferry was ready to sail for Bridgeport, and he had a sidecar in an elegant bar near the ferry dock. On the ferry the detective left his car to go and lean on the forward rail and watch the high white cliffs of the North Shore fade behind as the ferry rolled lightly on the water of the open Sound.
   Shayne’s was the second car off the steep ramp in Bridgeport. He drove fast along the Connecticut parkway until he reached New Haven. Olney was in his office when Shayne arrived at the house. Olney’s wife called him and Olney said he would come right home. When the ex-sergeant arrived, Shayne saw that he was a tall, heavy-set, honest-looking man.
   Shayne introduced himself and explained the reason for his visit.
   “Anything I can do to help,” Olney said. “Marty Maltz was a good guy.”
   “What was Maltz doing at Finch’s house?” Shayne said.
   “I wouldn’t know, Shayne,” Olney said. “Like I told the cops, Marty and I wrote to each other once in a while — but I hadn’t seen him for a year or so. Maybe it was something Corelli told him.”
   “Corelli? He went to see Maltz?”
   “Sure. He came to see both of us,” Olney said.
   “Why didn’t you tell the police that?”
   “They didn’t ask me,” Olney said. “Frankly, Shayne, I didn’t want to get mixed up in a murder. Now that Marty’s dead, maybe I was wrong.”
   “Maybe you were,” Shayne said. Or maybe Olney had a better reason for hiding the fact that Corelli had visited him. “Tell me about Corelli’s visit.”
   The tall ex-sergeant shrugged.“It was a hell of a shock at first. We all thought he was dead. There was quite a stink right after the war. They accused one of us, or all three of us, of betraying Corelli and getting him killed.”
   “Did you?”
   Olney looked straight at Mike Shayne.“I didn’t. I don’t know about the other two.”
   “How did Corelli survive?”
   “He said that the Krauts who captured him were in a big hurry and turned him over to the regular Army instead of the Gestapo. The Krauts who had him didn’t know who he was, so they sent him to a labor camp in Germany instead of shooting him. He was lucky.”
   “Where had he been for nineteen years?” Shayne asked.
   Olney shook his head.“He didn’t say. He just wanted to know where Finch was, and what had happened to the money. He accused me of turning him over to the Krauts. I told him he was crazy. He said maybe, but he’d watch me. I told him to watch.”
   “He mentioned money?”
   “Yeh. There was rumor about a lot of money after the war. I never really believed it. We’d have known.”
   “You didn’t know? None of you?”
   “Not as far as I know,” Olney said. “But I was just the radio man.”
   “What else did Corelli say?” Shayne asked.
   Olney seemed puzzled.“Well, he asked about Steiner. That was funny. I didn’t know Corelli even knew about Steiner.”
   “Who was Steiner?”
   “That’s a good question,” Olney said. “No one knew for sure. It was top-secret hush-hush Gestapo stuff. I used to monitor calls from the high brass about Steiner. There was talk Steiner could have been a double agent. All we knew was that Steiner was the name of a Gestapo troubleshooter whooperated near the front all the time.
   “There were all sorts of rumors who he could be; some even thought Steiner was more than one man. We’d get reports about him being on both sides of the line. One thing I know. He was a killer and the Kraut officers were scared as hell of him.”
   “What did Corelli want to know about Steiner?”
   “That was funny, too. He wanted to know if I knew where Steiner was. I told him I wouldn’t even know what Steiner looked like. I’d barely heard of him. Corelli said, of course, he had just heard of Steiner, too. He told me to forget he even asked.”
   “What about that betrayal in Italy?”
   “What about it?” Olney said.
   “Did any of you betray Corelli?” Shayne said.
   “No,” Olney said. Shayne had the definite feeling that the ex-sergeant was lying. Olney went on. “However, it would have been justified. We’d have died if he hadn’t got caught. That crazy Italian had planned a raid that was just about a suicide job. Finch tried to argue him out of it, butCorelli insisted.”
   “Corelli was captured before that raid?”
   “Two days before,” Olney said. “We were pretty damned glad, I can tell you.”
   “What else do you know about Steiner?”
   “Well, Corelli said—”
   That was as far as Olney got. The shot was sudden and low. A silenced gun. Olney did not fall. He straightened up instead, stared, and slid to the floor. There was a neat hole in the side of his head. It was bleeding. When Shayne bent over the man, Olney was dead.
   Shayne ran for the door. He reached the sidewalk and had a glimpse of a thin man sprinting around the near corner. Shayne ran after him. When he reached the corner a small grey coupe was already pulling away. Shayne went back to the house. He got the New York license plate, but he did not think that would do much good.
   In the house Olney’s wife was bending over the dead man. She blinked her eyes and stared at Shayne.
   “I’m sorry,” Shayne said.
   The woman blinked again.“He went through the war.”
   The woman was clearly in shock. Shayne called the police and a doctor. He found the name of the doctor in the Olney address book. The police detained him when they arrived. He told them to call Captain Masters, and after Masters had identified him they got his story and let him go. He gave them the license plate number of the grey coupe. Then he left.
   Shayne got into his car and lighted a cigarette. Maltz and Olney. Only Finch was left of the men Corelli had accused of betraying him. And Corelli was dead. Shayne could understand why Corelli would have wanted to kill Maltz and Olney and Finch.
   But who would kill Corelli, and Maltz, and Olney? And why not Finch? Unless it was Finch himself because there was more to the betrayal in Italy than had come out, and Maltz and Olney had known about it.
   Shayne put the car into gear and headed for the parkway into New York. On the way he stopped to call Masters. He asked the State Police captain to check on the whereabouts of Finch and all of his guests that afternoon. He asked Masters to send a picture of Corelli to the New York Police right away.
   Then he got back into the car and drove on toward New York. He wanted to find out how Corelli had come to the United States, and, if possible, where the Partisan leader had been for nineteen years. It might be a help.
   7.
   Michael Shayne reached New York in the afternoon and went to the Italian Consulate. The Consul was helpful. He did not know anything about Corelli, but he cabled Rome immediately.
   Shayne left to pick up the picture of Pietro Corelli at New York Police headquarters. Masters had sent it by messenger. With the picture in his hand, Shayne walked out into the shadows of the tall buildings.
   He walked through the city for the rest of the day, into the night, and all morning of the next day. He took five hours sleep in the Algonquin Hotel. By noon of the second day Shayne had checked every steamship that had arrived in the last month, every airline between New York and Rome, every terminal and pier. He had talked to crews and sailors.
   He learned absolutely nothing. No one had seen a man named Corelli, or one who looked like the picture of the dead man.
   The Consul had received prompt service from Rome. Nothing. As far as the Italian authorities in Rome knew, Corelli had died in the war. There was no record of Corelli’s reappearance.
   Shayne left the city and drove back to Westhampton. He had called Lucy Hamilton to tell her he did not know when he would return to Miami. It looked like a long case. Lucy said she would send his mail. Shayne drove fast to Westhampton.
   At State Police Headquarters, Masters was waiting. The Captain listened sourly as Shayne told him of his search for Corelli.
   “We checked that out two days ago,” Masters said. “All of it.”
   “Now you tell me,” Shayne said.
   “You didn’t ask,” Masters said, and grinned.
   “And the Connecticut cops forgot to ask Olney about Corelli,” Shayne said. He told Masters all he had learned from Olney.
   “I think he knew more,” Shayne said. “And I think the killer thought he did too. But what?” Shayne told Masters about the death of Olney. “What about our suspects? Did any of them take a long drive yesterday?”
   “All of them did,” Masters said, frowning. “When we checked we found that Finch went into New York to talk to his lawyer. Helpman says he drove out to Montauk just for a drive. Macadam drove up to Port Jefferson to take a sail on his yacht; he sailed alone. Myrna Mix claims she went to New York to talk to her agent. He says she showed up okay, but four hours late and drunk. Sally Helpman drove up to Wildwood State Park and swam alone all day. None of them drove a grey coupe.”
   “Fine,” Shayne said.
   “We got a report from Bonn on Berger,” Masters said. “Seems they were mighty interested. They’ve been watching Berger for years. Something about a little stealing back at the end of the war.”
   “Stealing what?” Shayne said.
   “Some German war secrets. They wouldn’t say what, because they have to clear it with Washington first. Otherwise, Berger’s record seems aboveboard. He was a Hauptman in the Signal Corps in all the places he says. He got around so much because he had friends in high places.”
   “That’s what he’d use as a cover if he was Gestapo,” Shayne said. He told Masters about the mysterious Steiner. Masters was interested.
   “I’ll get after Bonn again,” the State Police Captain said.
   “What about Corelli?” Shayne said. “He seems to have moved around a lot also, completely unnoticed.”
   “All we know is a man who looked like him took a flight to Chicago about six days ago. I figure he visited Maltz.”
   “Anyone see him in Westhampton?”
   “No one,” Masters said.
   “That sounds peculiar. It’s a small town. He didn’t just fly to Finch’s lawn.”
   “It’s mighty peculiar, all right,” Masters agreed. “Suppose you tell me.”
   Shayne tugged at his earlobe. A small fact was going around in his mind. Corelli’s clothes — Italian made and smelling of salt water. Shayne stood up.
   “I’ve got an idea, see you later,” he said.
   Shayne drove from the station back across the small bridge to Westhampton Beach and Finch’s house. The two men who had tried to kill him still did not fit. They had looked Italian. Shayne decided to set a trap, with himself as bait.
   Stealthily, Shayne left the house. Stealthily, but so that everyone in the house— and they were all there now — would see him. He carried a shovel and a large metal box. He walked quickly to the high sand dunes above the sea.
   The surf was calm and breaking lazily on the beach. Far out three boats, trawlers of good size, were fishing. Two of them were obviously bunker boats fishing for menhaden. The third was of a type Shayne did not recognize.
   Smiling grimly to himself, Shayne picked a spot that was hidden from the house but was in partial view from the sea. He began to dig. He dug for a half an hour, slowly. Then he buried the metal box and returned to the house. He made sure anyone could see that he no longer had the tin box.
   In the house Shayne played casino with Alistair Finch until just before dark. He had seated himself so that he could watch the spot where he had buried the metal box. He was sure nothing would happen until dark, but he sat at the window just to be sure. Nothing happened. Finch went to dress for dinner. The others were all in their rooms.
   Shayne went to his room, got his pistol, put it into his pocket, and left the big house. He crouched low behind the dunes and hurried to where he had buried the box. Behind a dune, from where he could observe both the spot where he had buried the box, and the sea and beach, Shayne lay down and held his pistol in his hand.
   Far out Shayne could see the important something he had been counting on. The moon was just rising, and the detective could make out the vague shadow of a distant boat. One boat now. It was very late for a fishing boat to be at work.
   8.
   They seemed to rise up like ancient monsters from the sea. Shayne had been staring at the empty ocean, the lazily breaking waves, and then they rose from nowhere. They came straight out of the sea.
   There were two of them. In the pale moonlight they were indistinct. They could have been real monsters. But actually they were two men with heavy air-tanks on their backs, rubber suits, fins on their feet, and what looked like spear guns in their hands.
   Shayne held his breath and waited. The two men took off their fins, looked carefully around, and started up the beach toward where Shayne had buried the metal box. Both of them had flipped down their rubber head hoods. They walked steadily but carefully to the dunes and stood just above where Shayne had buried the box.
   One of the men was carrying a canvas-wrapped case. He put it down and opened it. He took a shovel from the case and began to dig. The other man said something to him. The first man grunted in answer. They were speaking Italian.
   Shayne stood up and leveled his pistol.“Sorry gents, the money’s not there,” he said.
   The two men leaped back as if shot. One of them— he was small, and thin, and wore a dark mustache — reached for a pocket that bulged in his rubber suit.
   “Hold it!” Shayne snapped.
   The small thin man stopped moving. Shayne walked down with his pistol covering both men.
   “I thought you’d be watching me,” he said, grinning. “Did my digging interest you?”
   The thin man with the mustache swore in Italian. The other, who was short and chunky, said nothing.
   “Try English,” Shayne said. “You Partisans speak English, I’m sure.”
   The thin one shrugged.“Of course we speak English.”
   “Bet you were surprised to see me alive,” Shayne said. “Such careless work. I hope you did better in the war.”
   “We were in a hurry,” the chunky man said. “I told you to kill him before you threw him into the water, Marcello.”
   “Shut your mouth!” Marcello said.
   Shayne smiled.“Attempted murder is a bad charge in this country. You want to tell me about it?”
   Marcello hesitated. Then the Italian shrugged an eloquent Latin shrug.
   “We made a mistake. The car, you understand? It was his car, that Major Finch. We thought you were him.”
   “Try again,” Shayne said.
   “It is true,” Marcello said. “We think you are Major Finch, the swine, and then when we hit you and see you are not, we think you are in it with him anyway.”
   “You think he killed Corelli?” Shayne asked.
   “Who else?” Marcello said. “Twice the swine kill Pietro!”
   Shayne waved his pistol.“Okay, now sit down and tell me the whole story. All of it.”
   The two Italians looked at each other. They both shrugged and sat down. Shayne sat on the sand facing them. Sitting down they were all out of sight from the house and the beach. But Shayne kept his ears cocked for any sound while the thin Italian with the mustache talked.
   “That Major Finch he betrayed Corelli,” Marcello said. “The money it disappear, you know? We tell the Americans about it, but they say there is no proof. What can we do? We are poor Italians, and Major Finch is important man. So we try to forget. For nineteen years we try. And that is a very long time.
   “Then, one day maybe two, three months ago, Corelli he come back. He was lucky. The Germans who captured him turned him over to regular German Army unit. Those Germans do not know he is great Partisan leader. They put him with many other poor Italians and send him to labor camp in the east of Germany. At end of war Russians liberate him. Corelli identifies himself. They do not treat him well until they check and find he is Pietro Corelli, a great Communist Partisan.
   “When they find out who he is, they send him to Russia. He stay there nineteen years. All the time he is asking about Major Finch, Captain Maltz, and that Sergeant Olney. He is sure that one of them betrayed him. He waits. He thinks about all the money. At last he decides to leave Russia. Corellisays Russia is not so good now. They don’t like him any more in Russia because he was a Stalin man.
   “He gets away and he comes home. He finds three of us from the Partisan unit. He has plenty money, but he tells us this one who betrayed him must haveall the money. If it is Major Finch, we get even more because he is so rich now. Corelli he says he will give us our share.
   “So he buys a boat, good fishing boat, and we come over here. Corelli is afraid Italians will put him in jail as traitor or foreign Communist if he tells who he is before he gets the money. With the money he can prove he was betrayed, and, besides, money will buy anything.
   “We sail over here. Corelli goes to see Captain Maltz and Sergeant Olney. Then he goes there to the big house to talk to Major Finch. Then he is killed. We know it must be Major Finch. Corelli must have found out and the Major killed him.
   “The other two, they did not kill him. That is how we know it is the Major.”
   “Then why did you kill Maltz and Olney?” Shayne said.
   “Olney? Maltz? No. It is true we try to kill the major, because we were angry. But when we see we have not killed the major, we think. Why kill him, let us get the money first. We see you bury something. We think it is the money.”
   Shayne studied the two men. The thin one with the mustache seemed nervous, but Shayne felt he was telling the truth. The chunky one had not spoken. They did not seem like the kind who would kill without an excellent reason, such as revenge or cash. Still, revenge could be the motive, avendetta for Corelli.
   “You two can be jailed for a long time,” Shayne said to the Italians. “Now, maybe I’ll forget about the attempt on me, and about the illegal entry into the United States. I said maybe. If you boys come clean all the way.”
   Marcello, the spokesman, shrugged.“What you want to know?”
   “You said Corelli didn’t know for sure which of the three Americans betrayed him,” Shayne said. “What made him think he was betrayed at all, and why only those three?”
   Marcello nodded.“All right, I tell you. We were a unit, yes? These Americans they are with us. They have much money for us. This Major Finch he is in charge. One day Corelli he come to us, he say the major wants us to attack a German barrack. Twelve of us! We are to attack a whole barrack, and kill all the Germans.
   “Corelli he says the American major is crazy. The job is a suicide, no? We do not like it. Corelli says we cannot say no, because the American major says if we don’t attack we don’t get money. We got to have money to pay for food, to help our wives, to help the poor.
   “Corelli says the job is so bad he thinks maybe the American major is trying to get him killed or captured. He says if anything strange happens to him when we attack the barrack, we should tell everyone what we know about the American major.
   “Two days before we are supposed to attack we are all scared. I never see us so scared. Then, two days before, Corelli he is out on a routine job. He visit the village for wine. Corelli goes. I go. We are on the way back. Corelli is behind. Then we see the Major Finch and Captain Maltz and the Sergeant Olney.
   “They are across the valley, maybe two hundred yards away. They wave. Corelli he goes to see. He gets maybe one hundred yards and the Germans are waiting; I run. I get away. Later the Major, the Captain, and the Sergeant come back. Corelli was captured they tell us. Two days later we all hear. Corelli is dead, shot.
   “I tell Americans one of those three men, maybe all three, betray Corelli, set trap. Nineteen years we wait. Corelli comes back, and now he is dead again.”
   Shayne could see the whole picture. An isolated unit behind enemy lines. Italians and Americans in uneasy alliance. The fear and need of the moment. And someone had ordered a suicide mission? Why?
   Olney had said the mission was a suicide job. Finch had said the same. Now the three Italians.Only their stories did not agree. Finch and Olney said the attack on the barrack had been Corelli’s idea. The Italians said it was an American idea. Someone was lying.
   “Tell me about Steiner?” Shayne said.
   The thin Italian said,“Steiner? Who is he?”
   “You never heard of Steiner?”
   The thin man shrugged.“No, I never hear.”
   The chunky Italian said,“I no hear.”
   Shayne pulled his earlobe thoughtfully. They both seemed to be telling the truth.
   Shayne heard a faint noise behind him. He whirled, and climbed swiftly to the top of the dune. A hundred yards away in the dark he thought he saw the shadow of a man moving. Then the shadow was gone. It had looked very much like the same man who had killed Olney. Just below where he stood on the dune, Shayne saw depressions in the sand.
   Someone had been listening. Someone who had crawled up in total silence. Shayne motioned to the Italians to walk ahead of him. He marched the Italians to the house. He led them into the hall and called Masters. While he was waiting for Masters, Finch came into the hall.
   “Marcello! Candio!” Finch cried. “What the hell...”
   “The two men you didn’t know who jumped me,” Shayne said.
   The thin Italian, Marcello, shouted,“Betrayer! Traitor!”
   The chunky Italian spat on the thick carpet of the hall. Finch sat down hard in a chair.
   “Get them out of here!” Finch said.
   “In a minute,” Shayne said. “They bother you?”
   “Get them away from me, Mike!” Finch shouted. “You hear me?”
   Finch was almost hysterical. Shayne watched the industrialist. The man was far too affected by men who had simply accused him of something he said he hadn’t done. Finch appeared to be on the verge of attacking the two men.
   “Take it easy, Ally,” Shayne said.
   “You’re fired, Mike!” Finch cried. “Do you understand? I hired you, and I can fire you. I don’t want you around, I—” The man was raving hysterically now.
   Shayne reached out and slapped Finch. Finch stopped and stared. Then the industrialist began to cry. Finch was still crying in the hallway when Masters arrived. The State Police captain looked at Finch.
   “Two guests for your calaboose,” Shayne said.
   “What charge?” Masters wanted to know.
   Shayne looked at the two men.“Illegal entry,” he said. “I want them around a few days, okay?”
   Masters nodded.“I can hold them a few days, I suppose. No other charge?”
   “Not right now,” Shayne said.
   The thin Italian, Marcello, nodded to Shayne. There was a certain gratitude in the eyes of the Italian. The charge could have been much worse.
   Masters took the two men away. Finch had vanished somewhere. Shayne rubbed his big jaw for a moment. It was beginning to make some sense, but he had two more things to find out.
   9.
   After the two Italians had gone, the rest of the night was uneventful. Finch did not appear again. Macadam got quietly drunk by himself on the enormous terrace. The Italian trouble seemed to have disturbed Macadam, and Shayne kept his eye on the yachtsman.
   Myrna Mix got noisily drunk, as usual. Helpman took a long walk alone. Berger and Laura Finch went off together for a drive. Sally Helpman did not leave the house. She sat and watched television all night.
   Shayne went to his room, and with a cognac in his hand sat in the oversized armchair cogitating on his analysis of the case. The case boiled down to two questions: Had Finch betrayed Corelli and then killed him when he showed up again? If Finch had not killed Corelli, who else knew Corelli? They allcould have known Corelli.
   One thing was certain. Whoever had killed Corelli had thought that Corelli was dead. Therefore it had to be someone who had known Corelli in Italy and had also known Corelli had been captured and, presumably, shot.
   The next morning, Shayne puzzled over this all the way into New York along the sunny Southern State Parkway. He did not strike bad traffic until he reached Cross Island Parkway and turned north. He went into Manhattan through the Queens-Midtown Tunnel. He drove straight to Finch’s lawyer.
   Alistair Finch’s lawyer was an old man. His name was Whitestone Gibbs, and he had been the lawyer for the Finch family for fifty years. The old man was brusque.
   “All right, Shayne, I’ve heard about you. I don’t like petty legal peeping toms.”
   “And I don’t like shysters,” Shayne said. The redhead eased his big frame into a deep leather chair in Gibbs’ fine office. Shayne smiled. “But then, you’re no more a shyster than I am a peeping tom, are you? Why trade insults for no reason at all?”
   Gibbs glared. Then the white-haired old man laughed.
   “All right, Shayne. We’ll play it clean.” The old man sat down. “What dirt do you want to know about my client?”
   “Does he have any dirt to find?”
   “Who doesn’t,” Gibbs said evenly. “I advised him against hiring you, you know, when he asked my advice.”
   “He’s smarter than I thought,” Shayne said, “to ask you.”
   “I’ll flatter any man who flatters me,” Gibbs said. “What is it, his women? Alistair has three passions, Shayne, but murder isn’t one of them. He is not a violent man despite his war record. As a matter of fact, I imagine he got more medals for less killing of the enemy than any man in history. His forte was clean, safe work. He has courage.”
   “What are his passions?” Shayne said.
   “Blonde women too young for him, plenty of money and his social position that money helps him keep, and the reputation for being a patriotic industrial genius,” Gibbs said.
   “You’ve given him three good reasons for killing Corelli,” Shayne said. “That is, if he betrayed Pietro Corelli. I am presuming Finch told you the whole story!”
   “Most of it,” the lawyer said. “And what I told you about Finch would also do for his partner, Kurt Berger, just as well. Berger likes money, he likes position, he likes being the industrial tycoon, and he likes young and blonde women. In fact, he likes the same young blonde woman, I’m verymuch afraid.”
   “But he didn’t know, or betray, Corelli,” Shayne said. “If Finch betrayed Corelli over there in Italy, he could be made to smell very bad.”
   Gibbs agreed.“I doubt if they could touch him, but the Government would put a lot of pressure to get him out of his own company. That I will concede. A traitor makes a bad patriotic industrialist.”
   “What about the money? If Finch took the money, Italy and the United States might wonder about his whole operation.”
   Gibbs looked at a point above Shayne’s head. “You know, Shayne, I’ve always wondered how Kurt Berger got so high in Alistair’s company so quickly. Berger’s a sly one. There he was, a supposedly unimportant captain in a defeated army, tainted with Nazism, and within two years after the war he owned half of a large international company.”
   “Money?” Shayne said.
   “Where would Berger get money? On the other hand, how did Berger happen to contact Alistair and go so far so quickly?”
   “You’re suggesting that Berger somehow got the Partisan money, found out about Finch at the same time, and looked him up? Is that it?”
   “It is a bit of a coincidence that Berger was a Nazi officer, and Alistair operated within the German lines,” Gibbs said. He looked at Shayne. “I suppose you’ve found out that Bonn is interested in Berger’s career?”
   “You don’t miss much,” Shayne said.
   “No, not much,” Gibbs said. “I believe that Berger stole something from someone back in those days.”
   “And you know if Finch needed money before the war,” Shayne said.
   The white-haired old man frowned. His lined and weather-beaten face became severe. Shayne watched the old man struggling with himself over something.
   “Did he need money?” Shayne said.
   Gibbs stared straight ahead.“I’ve been the Finch lawyer a long time, Shayne. I can’t answer that.”
   “You mean you won’t? I think the police could find out very quickly,” Shayne said.
   “I suppose they could,” Gibbs said. “Let me say this much, Shayne. Old man Finch, Alistair’s father, was not a good businessman. He was a financial wizard, but he was careless about money. It seems a contradiction, but it isn’t. The old man loved finance, the manipulation of money and goods. But he did not care about personal money.”
   “When Alistair came out of the Army,” Shayne said, “how much money did he have? No, I’ll phrase that question differently. How much money should he have had?”
   Gibbs shook his head.“I can’t tell you, Shayne. If the police want to know, they can go to court.” He turned to look at Shayne. “But I will tell you that two years before the war the Finch company was in bad shape. Then, when he went into the Army, Alistair put all his money into war bonds. At least he said he did.”
   “Did anyone ever see the actual bonds?” Shayne said.
   “No,” Gibbs said. “They were in a safety deposit box; he had the key with him.”
   “Thank you,” Shayne said.
   Gibbs watched Shayne stand up to leave.“Alistair is not a killer, Shayne.”
   “No killer ever is,” Shayne said grimly.
   10.
   Shayne drove fast out of the city toward the east. The sun was at his back all the way. It had still not set by the time he reached the State Police barracks. Masters was in his office.
   “No trace of the guy who killed Olney,” Masters said. “Your two Italians are safe and cooling off. Bonn says that Kurt Berger could have been in Italy at the time. Records are bad from Nazi days. But he had a personal friend on Kesselring’s staff. He was at Peenemunde for a time, something he never mentioned.”
   “That’s the rocket development station?” Shayne said.
   “It was,” Masters said.
   “What about the elusive Steiner?”
   Masters shook his head.“Nothing. Or just about nothing. Steiner was a real secret Gestapo agent. Worked all sides of the line. Absolutely no record seems to have ever been kept. No picture, no description, no file at all. The Bonn people aren’t even sure Steiner was one man.
   “They do have three facts we could use. Steiner was working in Italy at about the right time. They don’t know the job, or where, or how, or if anything happened. No report. The only reason they know Steiner was in Italy is that in one of Kesselring’s intelligence reports the name is mentionedin connection with an accidental bombing of a hospital.
   “Steiner was known to specialize in Partisan work. Whatever or whoever Steiner was, he was an expert in busting up Partisans. The other things are that Steiner was reported to have broken an arm badly, and that Steiner once got inside Auschwitz to ferret out a hiding Jewish scientist. That means that Steiner probably has a number tattooed on his arm.”
   “Or has a scar where it was removed,” Shayne said.
   The big detective sat and thought. He pulled on his earlobe and narrowed his steely grey eyes. A theory was taking shape. The key was the deaths of Maltz and Olney. They were the only two men Corelli had actually talked to in America, if Finch was telling the truth. Shayne decided it was time to get the truth from Finch.
   “Thanks, Masters, I may have something for you in a few hours. Come to the Finch house about nine o’clock. Okay?”
   “I can use something, I’ll be there,” Masters said.
   Shayne drove back to the big house on the beach. The road was deserted. But as Shayne approached the house he had a definite impression that someone was watching him from an upstairs window.
   He parked the car and walked in. He went up to change for dinner. Dinner was strained and quiet. They all seemed to be watching him except Kurt Berger who spent his time watching Laura Finch. Berger seemed to have nerves of iron. A trained spy would have nerves like that, Shayne mused.
   After dinner Shayne followed them all into the living room. It was ten minutes to nine. Shayne lighted a cigarette and stood in front of Alistair Finch.
   “All right, Ally, now really tell me about Corelli,” Shayne said.
   Finch seemed to flinch away as if he had been expecting to be asked that. Quite obviously he had no intention of answering.
   “Go to hell, Mike,” Finch said. “I should have known better than to hire you.”
   “You made a mistake, all right, if you wanted everything to stay top secret,” Shayne said. “I’ve got a hunch at least two other people in this room know besides me and you. Anyway, there are three murders to worry about now, and they all had one thing in common. The killer knew about you and Corelli.”
   Finch snapped,“I’m completely innocent, Shayne. Just remember that.”
   “Tell me the story,” Shayne said. He looked at his watch. As he did so, he noticed Sally Helpman had come into the room. Shayne had not seen her go out. The tall, bony woman sat in a chair near her husband and smiled at Shayne. Masters would arrive in six minutes.
   “Tell it yourself,” Finch said.
   Shayne nodded.“Okay, I will. I figure it goes something like this. You and Maltz and Olney and your other three men were in with Corelli’s Partisans. Everything was smooth until one day Corelli told you he’d planned a mission you knew was sheer suicide.
   “Maybe you weren’t sure if Corelli was just nuts or a traitor, but you knew it would be curtains for everyone. So you had to stop Corelli. You’re not a killer, Ally, and I don’t think Maltz or Olney were. Anyway, you like being the nice hero too much to risk all the trouble involved if you held a kangaroo court and executed Corelli.
   “You couldn’t even prove your suspicions, and you couldn’t trust the other Partisans to believe you. So it was go through with a job you knew was a bad one, or get rid of Corelli. You tipped the Germans somehow and set up the ambush of Corelli.
   “You figured they’d kill him, and you’d be safe. Or they’d show their hand and a deal by letting him live. You didn’t figure on Marcello seeing you, but you had to go through with it. So in reality, you betrayed Corelli to save your unit and the Partisans. You were a hero, Ally.”
   For a long time, a full minute, Finch said nothing. No one moved in the room. Berger was looking at Laura Finch who was looking at her husband.
   Finally Finch sighed.“How did you figure it, Mike?”
   “It had to be,” Shayne said. “Maltz and Olney had to know about it, and they never talked. They must have approved. Both you and Olney said Corelli thought up the suicide job. Besides, I believed that you both thought Corelli was dead. And you’re just not a killer, Ally.”
   “Thanks, Mike, but—” Finch began.
   Shayne nodded.“But you couldn’t resist the money. I believe you when you say you didn’t know about the money when Corelli got caught. That was another thing that tipped me that Corelli was the liar, not you. Corelli had that money. Only he didn’t have it when he was caught. You found it later and you couldn’t resist. You’ve felt like a traitor ever since.”
   Shayne fell silent, waiting.
   “I found it later,” Finch said dully, his eyes on the floor. “I was going through Corelli’s papers and I found this note. It said the money would be under a certain tree. I dug it up. After that I couldn’t look anyone in the face, but I had to have that money! I was broke, the company wasgoing under as soon as I got home and—”
   Shayne said,“What else was on that note?”
   “A name,” Finch said. Finch looked at Shayne. “Just a name.Steiner.”
   11.
   Alistair Finch shrugged.“Then I knew Corelli was a traitor. I had heard of Steiner. I wish to God I hadn’t taken that money. I had to get rid of Corelli, but I didn’t have to take the money. I can pay it back now. I’ve done good work, but I’ll never live it down. I hoped, when I called you, I could keep it quiet. I should have known better, Mike.”
   Shayne looked at his watch. Masters would arrive any minute. Shayne turned to face Kurt Berger.
   “How did you find out about Finch and Corelli?” Shayne said to Berger. “That was your hold on Finch, wasn’t it?”
   Berger smiled a cool smile.“I had a connection on Kesselring’s staff. I found out a little about Finch and Corelli. It was in a report that an American had betrayed Corelli. Corelli was supposed to have been shot, but there was an error. I destroyed the record after I photographed it. I needed an industrial connection inAmerica.”
   “Kurt had a good deal,” Finch said. “But I might have turned him down except that he knew about Corelli.”
   “Berger had the formula for the rocket additive,” Shayne said.
   “Of course,” Berger admitted. “Just the basic formula. Finch modified it. I did not exactly steal it. I copied it. Bonn merely wants to know how I had access to it. That is my secret.”
   “Steiner would have had access,” Shayne said. “Steiner got around. The way I see it, Corelli made a deal with Steiner — half the money each and safe conduct for Corelli. Steiner wanted safety by then. He was supposed to be smart, and the end was in sight for Germany.
   “I figure Corelli contacted Steiner and made a deal to lead his unit into a trap at that barrack. Then Steiner would save Corelli and they’d disappear with the money. Steiner knew no one could identify him, except Corelli. He probably planned to get rid of Corelli.
   “But Finch loused it all up by betraying Corelli two days earlier. Corelli went to Russia and probably figured one American was in it with Steiner for the money. So he came looking for Finch and Maltz and Olney. Only Corelli ran into Steiner right here. Steiner killed him. Then Steiner killed Olney and Maltz. The only motive that made sense was that Corelli recognized someone.
   “Even if Finch or Maltz or Olney had betrayed Corelli and taken the money, killing him would only have made it worse. They would have known Corelli wouldn’t come alone. The others would know about the betrayal, because they’d made the charge after the war. But if Corelli had made a deal, thenCorelli would know what Steiner looked like.
   “It had to be the answer. It explained why Corelli told his men that it was the Americans who cooked up the suicide attack. It was Corelli’s idea to get rid of everyone and get away with the money. And only Steiner would have wanted to kill Corelli. I don’t expect Steiner would live long if his own people ever found him.”
   Shayne looked at Berger. The blond German had gone pale under his smile.
   “Let me see your arm, Berger,” Shayne said. “It will either clear — or convict you.”
   In the room no one moved. They all stared at Kurt Berger. The blond German was still smiling, but the smile was only on his mouth now. Shayne looked at his watch. Masters was already ten minutes late! Shayne lowered his shoulder slightly and fingered his pistol in his pocket.
   “My arm?” Berger said.
   “Steiner had a number from Auschwitz,” Shayne said. “I want to see both your arms. I want to see a number or a scar.”
   “Scar? Number?” Berger said. “I have no scar or—”
   Max Helpman had half risen from his seat. His face was red with fury. Shayne swung toward Helpman.
   “A scar, Shayne? Low, on the right wrist? Maybe a faint trace of what looked like writing or figures still—” The shot rang out in the silence of the room with a sound like the explosion of a bomb. Helpman jerked stiff. The bald man stared at Shayne. Then Helpman fell on his face.
   Finch and Berger started toward him. Shayne was not looking at Helpman at all. He was looking at Sally Helpman. The tall, slender woman stood with the small pistol smoking in her right hand.
   “Don’t bother,” Sally Helpman said to Berger and Finch. “I don’t miss. He’s dead. I never liked him anyway, the American pig. All of you, back! Against that wall. Quick!” Shayne made a faint motion with his arm.
   “No, Shayne!” Sally Helpman said. “I’ll kill you in a minute. You did very well on this. We could have used a man like you. Is this what you wanted to see?”
   The tall, slender woman held out her right wrist. She pulled back the sleeve. There was a scar about two inches long on the wrist. It was faintly discolored.
   “I told them the Auschwitz job was too risky for me. I was far too valuable to be marked in any way. I was the one Gestapo agent no one ever knew — not even Hitler! But they were fools. You guessed correctly, Shayne. I made the deal with Corelli. Finch ruined it and those idiots in Italy sent Corelli away before I could silence him.
   “I met Helpman in the hospital where I was posing as an American nurse. It was my chance to run for cover. I had to take it. I knew we were beaten. I was safe in America until Corelli came here. I had to kill him. I killed them all.”
   Shayne said,“I almost admire you. You’re a very clever woman. Why didn’t you kill me and the Italians out there on the dunes? You were there, Mrs. Helpman. Why?”
   “Colonel Steiner!” the deep voice of the woman snapped. “I was a full Colonel in the Gestapo!” Then the woman smiled a thin smile. “Female vanity, I apologize, Shayne. You and the Italians? I heard, they knew nothing about me. I do not kill for nothing.
   “And if you are stalling for time, Shayne, don’t bother. Masters will be at least another five minutes. You see, I raised the drawbridge. He will have to go the long way, by another bridge. Now, if you will all line up I will—”
   A siren sounded in the distance. Masters was no fool. The woman listened. Then she shrugged.
   “He made good time. You are lucky. I have my time schedule.”
   The woman vanished through the open French doors. Shayne started after her in a split second. Finch ran for the windows. Finch was a step ahead of Shayne when the window blew up. Shayne was bowled over.
   When he got to his feet the French doors were a shambles and Finch was stretched out flat on his back. Shayne bent over the industrialist. Finch was badly hurt but alive. Shayne dashed out the doors.
   A motor started not far away. A boat motor. Shayne dashed toward the water. He had gone a hundred yards and was just coming up over the dunes when his feet were caught and he fell head-long. There was a sharp pain in his right calf.
   Swearing, Shayne disentangled himself from the barbed wire. He reached the top of the dune just in time to see the faint shadow of a small boat fade into the night.
   By the time Shayne returned to the house, Masters was there with his men. The Captain was very angry.
   “Damned drawbridge was up!” Masters said. “The controls were locked and there was no operator in sight.”
   “She was very smart,” Shayne said. “She fooled me. I expect you’ll find the operator dead somewhere.”
   “She? Shewho?” Masters said.
   Shayne explained it all to Masters. The ambulance came for Finch. Laura Finch went with her husband. Berger shrugged and smiled and crossed to the liquor cabinet for a drink.
   Macadam had been drinking for ten minutes, and Myrna Mix was matching him glass for glass.
   “The thing that made me sure it was Steiner was the killing of Maltz and Olney.” Shayne explained. “You see, the only thing that Finch, Maltz, and Olney had in common was that they all knew Corelli. And the only thing that Finch did not have in common with Olney and Maltz was thathe had not seen or talked with Corelli. Corelli never got to Finch. If he had, Finch would be dead.
   “Steiner, or whatever her real name is, was a real pro. She did not kill without a reason, without something to be gained. When the Italians and myself were sitting ducks she left us alone. That was another hint that started the wheels turning. We had been talking about Steiner, and the Italians knew nothing.
   “So I guessed that Corelli had been killed because he knew who Steiner was. Maltz and Olney were killed simply because they had talked to Corelli, and Steiner had no way of knowing what Corelli had told them. She was taking no chances.
   “Steiner, or Mrs. Helpman, didn’t even know Corelli was still alive. It must have been quite a shock when she saw him. She had a good cover. No one would suspect an American nurse, a woman, the wife of an American ex-OSS man. But she knew that if we once even guessed, even suspected, we would check into her fake American background. We’d find there never was a Sally someone who was a nurse in Italy.
   “She counted on no questions ever being asked, on the fact that everyone assumed that Steiner was a man or more than one man, and on her marriage to Helpman. That was one more good step of cover for her. I can see why she grabbed it in Italy. I’ll bet a year’s income that when you check back you’ll hit a dead end at that American Hospital in Italy in nineteen forty-four.”
   Masters still looked amazed.
   “How did you figure it was her, though? I mean, you knew it was Steiner, but why her?”
   Shayne laughed.“I didn’t know it was her. I figured it had to be her, or Helpman, or Macadam. Finch was too involved in all of it to be Steiner, Laura was too young, and Berger had stolen that formula. Steiner would never have stolen so obvious a thing. I just used Berger to help smoke her out. I admit she caught me by surprise, and that drawbridge trick was good. She was thinking all the time.
   “Of course, the scar did it. I should have guessed a woman like her, though. She is big enough, and has a deep enough voice, to pass as a man. That’s what made her such a good agent. She had that get-away planned like a military operation. After all, she was a colonel.”
   “She won’t get far,” Masters growled. “The Coast Guard’s out now.”
   Shayne shook his head,“She’s had it planned too long, Masters. They won’t get her that easily.”
   By morning they had not found Sally Helpman, alias Colonel Steiner. Just after dawn the State Police found her boat less than a mile down the coast. There were helicopter tire marks near it. Master’s notified Washington, and Shayne caught the jet back to Miami.

   Seven months later Shayne was in his office when Lucy Hamilton brought in the newspaper. There was a small item on a back page. It said that a woman known as Sally Helpman had been found dead in Tulsa, Oklahoma. It said she was a famous German agent known only as Steiner.
   Two days later Shayne got a letter from Masters. It told him that the FBI had finally tracked the woman to Tulsa. She had been working as a clerk in a bank, disguised as a man. No one knew who she was, and everyone had liked her. When the FBI carefully closed in, they found her sitting alone in her room smiling at them. She had taken poison and died in ten minutes.
   “They traced her back to that hospital and no farther,” Shayne said to Lucy. “They never did find out her real name.”
   “No name at all,” Lucy said. “She was a horrible woman, but at least she should have a name.”
   “Just Steiner,” Shayne said. “Colonel Steiner. I think that’s the way she would have wanted it. She thought of herself as a soldier, I suppose. But she was just a killer, Lucy — just a paid killer.”
   Shayne read the letter again and turned back to his quiet, routine cases.
   Partners of the Dark
   by Alson J. Smith
   1.
   The phone rang in the office of Captain Mike Casey of the Criminal Investigation Detail, Baltimore Police Department. The Detail had been set up a year earlier to answer newspaper criticism that the Department was soft on crime-syndicate hoodlums. The smartest, toughest cops in town had been pulled into it and Captain Mike Casey, 57, a grizzled, hard-boiled ex-pavement pounder had been called downtown from the North Avenue Station to head it up.
   Casey picked up the phone.“Yeah?” he barked. Then, “Oh, hello, Commissioner,” in a more subdued tone.
   For a full three minutes he listened, participating in the conversation only to the extent of a guarded“yes” or “no” now and then. Finally he sighed and said: “Well, we’ll do our best, Commissioner.”
   As he hung up, Casey said,“Damn!” to nobody in particular.
   He paced the floor for a few minutes, rubbing his chin with his big paw, looking broodingly out at the traffic on Fayette Street. Finally he buzzed his secretary on the intercom.“Alice,” he said, “tell Phil Egan to step in, will you?”
   A few seconds later Lieutenant Phil Egan stuck his head in the door. He grinned.“Hi, Mike. What’s the good word?”
   “Come in and close the door,” rumbled Casey. “And the word isn’t good. It just came down from the Commissioner, and it couldn’t be worse!”
   Phil Egan was a thirty-nine-year-old career cop who had graduated from the University of Maryland with an A.B. in Social Science. He had spent a year studying criminal law at Georgetown Law School and was considered a comer in the Department. He stood 5-11, weighed 180, and was a black-belt man in judo. He had a square, highcheekboned, tanned face with clear light blue eyes. His black hair was beginning to gray at the temples. He had been brought into the C.I.D. from the Detective Division because he was considered smart, tough, and resourceful.
   Egan lit a cigarette.“Don’t tell me they want us to bring in Johnny Unitas and Weeb Eubank just because the Colts blew one to the Steelers Sunday.”
   Casey snorted.“It’s no joke, Phil. It’s those goddam jewelry heists. The Commissioner has decided they’re syndicate jobs, so he’s taking them away from Burglary and dropping them in our laps.”
   Egan whistled.“That is the dirty end of the stick. How come?”
   “He figures that nine successful heists in as many months means syndicate. Either that or the heisters are old pros who are cutting The Mob in for a big percentage. Major-league thieves couldn’t work here for nine months without syndicate okay.”
   Egan took a long drag on his cigarette.“That’s for sure. Nine heists? I thought it was eight.”
   Mike Casey picked up a piece of paper from his desk.“Nine. Forty minutes ago a New York jewelry salesman by the name of Norman Feldman was slugged while getting his sample case out of the trunk of his car in front of the Hearn Jewelry Store on West Saratoga Street. The case had fifteen thousand dollars worth of ice in it. Feldman is in Johns Hopkins Hospital with a concussion.”
   “Any clues?”
   Casey shook his head.“Nobody in the store or on the street saw it, or at least we haven’t located anybody yet who will admit he saw it, and the guy is still unconscious.”
   “Sure puts us on the spot. I’ll bet Burglary is throwing a party over losing this one.”
   Casey dead-panned:“The Commissioner put me on the spot, so I’m putting you on it. These jewelry heists are all yours, Phil. Good hunting.”
   2.
   Back in his own office, the first thing Phil Egan did was to stick pins in a map of the city— one red pin for each of the nine jewelry robberies. None of them, he noted with interest, had been in the downtown Howard Street area. All had taken place in neighborhood shopping districts around the city. The pins formed an irregular circle the center of which was, roughly, the area around North Charles and Mount Royal, near the Pennsylvania Railroad Station.
   As for the M.O., the last heist— the slugging of the jewelry salesman — was the only one involving violence. In all of the others, entrance — to seven jewelry stores and one hotel room — had been gained by simply unlocking doors, walking in at two or three A.M. and either opening safes by clever manipulation of the tumblers or cutting out the locks with a blowtorch and acetylene gas. Two of the former, five of the latter.
   In the hotel room job, the thieves had let themselves into the room of a Broadway and Hollywood starlet who was playing a tryout week in Baltimore and had made off with $20,000 worth of gems with which she had been gifted— as she was able to prove — by various gentlemen.
   Whatever else they were, one of the gang had to be an expert locksmith, and another a first rate boxman. And, Phil Egan would bet his last shamrock, they were holed up in the slightly run-down, semi-bohemian area around North Charles and Mount Royal. There were plenty of third rate hotels there— and a couple of good ones — plus rooming houses, bars, jazz joints. And there were several coffee houses where folk singers twanged guitars or bearded poets read their latest effusions to short-haired girls in toreador pants and dark glasses.
   His first stop, obviously, was the Johns Hopkins Hospital. He phoned. Yes, Mr. Feldman had regained consciousness. Could he talk? Yes, but only for a minute or so.
   It was late October, warm, hazy Indian summer, and Egan left his topcoat in the office. Hell of a day to be tracking down jewel thieves in town. He’d much rather be picking up Muriel after she got out of work at three and driving out towards Westminster to look at the foliage. He thought gloomily: that old line from Gilbert and Sullivan is right. A policeman’s lot is not a happy one.
   He picked up the unmarked black Chevrolet sedan that he usually used from the police garage on Gay Street and headed north for the Johns Hopkins Hospital. Well, he thought philosophically, he would see Muriel that night, and damn the iridescent foliage. They’d make their own colors in their own fashion.
   A policeman was seated outside Feldman’s room. He recognized Egan and said: “Hello, Lieutenant. Our boy is awake, but he’s got a flying saucer for a head.”
   Egan laughed shortly and went on in. A middle-aged nurse was sitting beside the bed, reading a magazine. The jewelry salesman’s head was swathed in bandages. He had his eyes closed and the whiteness of his pallor emphasized the dark lines of his eyebrows. He was a rather thin man of about thirty-five, and his horn-rimmed glasses with one cracked lense were on the bedside table.
   “Lieutenant Egan, Police Department,” he told the nurse crisply. Feldman heard him and slowly opened his eyes, which were brown and bloodshot.
   “Sorry about this, Mr. Feldman. Feel like talking?” The man smiled wanly and shook his head.
   “Well, I understand,” Egan said soothingly. “Just a couple of routine questions for now. Did you see the men who sapped you?”
   Feldman whispered:“Not very well. Happened too fast. One was kind of fat.”
   “How many were there?”
   “Three or four — I’m not sure.”
   “Did they have a car?” Phil Egan asked.
   “Yes, it was parked right behind me.”
   “What make?”
   “I think a Plymouth, about a fifty-six.”
   “What color?”
   “Black.”
   “Did you notice the license number?”
   Feldman shook his head.“Maryland plates,” he whispered. He closed his eyes wearily.
   The nurse looked reprovingly at Egan. He said:“Well, that’s all for now. Thanks, Mr. Feldman.”
   The man didn’t open his eyes.
   A week later Feldman was out of the hospital and able to look through the mug books at Headquarters. He had seen his assailants briefly, but not well enough to make positive identification. The fat man he thought he might be able to identify.
   He picked out four photos that might possibly be those of the men who had slugged him, including that of a fat-faced, heavy-set local thug named George“Binky” Byers, 28, who had fallen several times for petty larceny and simple assault. A very unlikely jewel thief, but Phil Egan sent Detective Sergeant Gus Anderson out to pick him up for questioning.
   Byers’ last known address was a rooming house on Franklin Street. Anderson came back without him. He wasn’t there, had left no forwarding address, and nobody in that transient neighborhood knew where he had gone. He hadn’t been seen around the bars in over a year.
   A few days later Egan, getting nowhere in his investigation of the jewelry heists, had dinner with Muriel Evans, in her three-room apartment on Mount Vernon Place. Muriel was Goucher’54, which made her about twenty-nine. She was a blue-eyed, honey-haired blonde, about 5–6 in height, and with other and even more impressive statistics.
   She was Travel Editor of theBaltimore Sun, and she had marriage in the back— and sometimes in the front — of her mind. She’d been Phil’s girl for three years, ever since they’d met at a posh party thrown by another Goucher girl whom Egan had known ever since his Georgetown Law School days.
   Muriel was something to look at, in a clinging blue housecoat and not much else.“How’s my favorite cop?” she murmured, pressing against him and turning her face up for his kiss. It lasted a long time.
   “Yum,” he said finally, still holding her in his arms. “What’s cooking?”
   “Me,” she said. “Also shrimp chop suey with water chestnuts, imported all the way from Doo Far’s carry-out around the corner on Charles Street.”
   “Sounds great,” he said, letting her go.
   She pointed to a tea tray with bottles, a jar of olives, a bucket of ice cubes, and cocktail glasses on it.“Be a good little Hawkshaw and mix us some martinis while I check the food,” she called out as she went into the tiny kitchen.
   It was a cozy apartment. Wall-to-wall deep green carpeting, three Van Gogh reproductions on the walls, glass-topped coffee table in front of the fireplace, shiny black log scuttle, low bookcases, a handsome combination television, FM radio, and hi-fi, a recordholder, his picture and one of her mother and father on the mantle. The furniture was gray, chic, comfortable. He mixed the martinis, slumped into an easy chair, and turned on the television to catch the six o’clock news.
   The news was tiresome. Khrushchev might come to the UN. Cuba was complaining about U.S. violation of her air space around Guantanamo. There was a new revolution in Costa Rica. Richard Burton had been seen with his wife in Switzerland. The Colts were in good condition for their game with the Packers at Green Bay Sunday. And the police were still baffled by the series of sensational jewel robberies that had netted the thieves a quarter of a million dollars.
   He grimaced at that and turned off the set.
   Muriel came back into the living room.“Be a few minutes yet,” she said. She sipped her martini, sitting on the floor in front of him, putting one hand comfortingly — if a bit excitingly — on his knee. He ran his fingers through her honey-colored hair.
   “How are you doing with your jewel robbers?” she asked.
   “Not so good,” he replied glumly. “They’re ruining my disposition. Also my love life.”
   She looked at him.“I think that involves me. Please elucidate, Charlie Chan.”
   He drained his martini and held out the olive to her.“I can’t stay long after we eat. Got to check The Block on this damned jewelry thing.”
   She pouted.“Can’t it wait? I thought we’d eat, catch the new Italian movie at the Art, and then come back here for an orgy.”
   Egan shook his head.“Can’t wait, even though I could use a good orgy. But give me a rain check.”
   She sighed.“Sure. All I do these days is hand out rain checks. If this keeps up I’ll take out after those jewelry heisters myself.”
   He laughed shortly.“You’re a cinch to do better than we’re doing.”
   3.
   “The Block,” as it was known all up and down the east coast, was really three blocks on East Baltimore Street, and it was a garish tenderloin replete with bars, B-girls, burlesque shows, night clubs, tattoo parlors, third-rate hotels, all-night movies, and gospel missions. You could get any thing there — a girl, dirty pictures, a beer, a crabcake, a broken head, a heroin fix. It was the last of its kind — an organized-to-the-hilt, syndicate-controlled, Barbary Coast.
   But its raffish people— strippers, bartenders, doormen, tattoo artists, men’s room attendants, masters of ceremonies, bookies, B-girls, bouncers — knew everything that went on in the underworld. They were privy to all the action in town. The Baltimore Police Department leaned heavily on its “informants” in TheBlock.
   The unmarked black Chevie sedan prowled slowly east on Baltimore Street towards this tawdry playground. Phil Egan, full of chop suey, slumped behind the wheel, wishing to hell he was back at Muriel’s apartment, with Muriel in his arms, listening toJudy Garland at Carnegie Hall on the hi-fi.
   He parked the Chevie in front of Biggy’s Bar on Commerce Street, just off The Block. Biggy’s was near the Gayety Burlesque stagedoor, and, although it advertised itself as a stag bar, strippers from the theatre hung out there along with musicians, stagehands, and comedians.
   The show was on in the Gayety so there was only one customer in the bar. The bartender was a fairly attractive girl of about twenty-seven who sat moodily smoking a cigarette behind the polished mahogany. The lone customer was studying the autographed photos of the strippers above the bar mirror.
   The bar-doll— that’s what they call lady bartenders in Baltimore — looked up. “Egan,” she said. “What you-all doin’ down heah tonight?” She had all of the Blue Ridge Mountains in her voice. She was one of his people.
   “Hello, Marge,” he said. “How’s business?”
   She flicked the ashes from her cigarette.“Reckon it’ll pick up when the show breaks. At least, it usually does.”
   In a low voice Egan said:“You get anything on that last jewelry heist?”
   “The one abaht a week ago? Wheah that salesman got hisself slugged?”
   He nodded.
   “Uh-uh.”
   He took four photos from his pocket and a ten dollar bill from his wallet and held them out to the girl.“You make any of these?”
   She studied the four mug shots that the salesman had picked out as possibles.“Naw,” she said finally. “Ah kain’t make a one of ’em.” She looked wistfully at the bill folded between his fingers.
   He sighed and put the pictures back in his pocket and the bill in his wallet.“Get anything, call me quick.”
   “Ah’ll do that, Egan.”
   That was the way it went all night. The people hadn’t gotten a single rumble on the jewelry heists. Snaps O’Toole, who sold girlie magazines and dirty pictures, Loretta, the plump B-girl at the Tampico Club, Ferdy, the bookie at the newsstand on the corner of East Baltimore and Gay Streets, Big Joe, the bouncer at the Troc Sho-Bar — all looked longingly at the ten-spot and regretfully admitted that they hadn’t gotten a thing on the jewelry capers and couldn’t make a mother’s son of the mug shots. It was one A.M. and the last shows were going on in all The Block clubs. He decided to try one more informant — Charmaine, a stripper at the Three O’Clock Club. Her real name was Haydee Melendez and she was a Cuban refugee.
   Egan really liked Haydee, who supported her mother and three younger sisters by taking off her clothes for a bunch of drunks twice a night, wheedling drinks for a percentage, acting as a police stoolie, and doing whatever else was necessary to pay the rent for three buggy tenement rooms on Paca Street and some groceries from the supermarket.
   The Three O’Clock Club was the usual Baltimore show spot. There was a horseshoe-shaped bar enclosing a stage and runway, and a five-piece band played behind a curtain at the open end of the horseshoe.
   There were maybe fifteen men scattered about the bar, most of them carefully nursing a single bottle of beer. Three bartenders, a girl and two men, slouched with their backs to the stage, indifferent to the feigned ecstasies of the undulating peelers.
   Phil Egan found a place at the bar. He didn’t see Haydee anywhere. He said to the girl bartender: “Bourbon and water. Charmaine working tonight?”
   “Yeah,” the bar-doll said languidly. “She’s back stage gettin’ dressed. She’s on next.”
   The girl who was working bumped a final sinuous bump, pulled the pasties from her breasts and threw them to the beer-drinkers, yanked down her transparent panties to give the crowd a completely untrammeled look at her curvacious posterior, and exited to scattered applause.
   Then Charmaine came on. She was twenty, blackhaired, brown-eyed, full-figured, with a coffee and cream complexion. She worked strong— she had to; the strong workers were always in demand, and she couldn’t afford long layoffs. In no time at all she was out of her sequin-studded silver dress, and working in a blue strobolite to bring out the full effect of the man’s hands outlined in orange on her buttocks.
   She saw Phil Egan and nodded in recognition, but otherwise ignored him as she stripped her brassiere and panties and writhed on the stage in simulated passion. She got a big hand from the beer-drinkers.
   She came from backstage wearing the same sequin-studded silver dress she had worn at the beginning of her act.
   “’Allo Eegan,” she said, smiling a gold-toothed smile. “’Ow you like me tonight?”
   “You’re hotter than three feet inside a furnace,” he said, taking her light brown hand in his. Then in a lower voice: “Let’s talk for a minute.”
   She nodded and led him to an unoccupied table between the bar and the wall. One of the bartenders bustled over and he ordered another bourbon and water. She shook her head at the bartender, meaning she didn’t want a drink and this guy wasn’t a mark to be taken.
   She took his hand in both of hers.“So, Eegan, wot I do for you?”
   “Take a look. Any of ’em ring a bell?” He handed her the four photos, and made sure she saw the folded ten between his fingers.
   She looked carefully at the pictures. Three of them she turned down with a shake of the head, but the fourth she studied intently. Then she smiled and deftly plucked the bill from between his fingers.
   “Thass heem,” she said. “Thass Pete.”
   “Pete who?”
   “Pete I don’t know who. Zey jus’ call heem Pete.”
   “Who’s ‘they’?”
   “Hees buddies. Two of zem. Zey come here many time for oh, ’bout eight months.”
   “Catch any other names?”
   “Lemee theenk. Wan zey call Frank. Zat all I hear.”
   “Are they heeled?”
   She nodded.“Oh, good! Zey buy wheesky, teep big. Five dollah, wan time I treenk wiz zem.”
   “What did they talk about?”
   She shrugged.“Ball game, horses — I don’t remember.”
   “Anything about jewelry?”
   Her eyes opened wide.“Joolry? No, I don’ theenk—”
   “Haydee, the next time they come in, try to get their names and addresses. It’ll be worth fifty.”
   “Feefty dollah? Oh, I try hard, Eegan!”
   “So long, Haydee. You’re a good kid.” He kissed her lightly on the cheek.
   She giggled and said:“Not like zat, Eegan. Like zis.” She kissed him on the lips, her full mouth working sensuously against his.
   “Very nice,” he said. “Thanks, Haydee. And don’t forget those names and addresses.”
   Well, it wasn’t much to show for a night’s work, but it was something. Binky Byers, the fat hoodlum tentatively identified by Feldman as one of his assailants, was still in town, was hanging around The Block with two pals, and was calling himself Pete.
   Wearily he headed the black Chevie towards his apartment on Calvert Street.
   4.
   Two nights later Egan had dinner at Muriel’s. Afterwards they made a fire, threw some pillows on the floor in front of the fireplace, and lay there, sipping brandy and listening to the hi-fi. It was cozy and warm, and so was Muriel, but at 11:25, just as their kisses were beginning to take on a new meaning, the phone rang.
   “Let it ring,” he groaned.
   “Damn! I’d like to.” But she got up and answered it Then she held it out to him. “It’s for you.”
   It couldn’t be anybody but Mike Casey, because nobody but Mike knew that he could be reached at this number.
   Casey rasped:“Phil? They’ve dropped an atom bomb on us. Just blew the safe in the Lord Calvert Hotel Jewel and Fur Shop and grabbed one hundred eighty thousand dollars worth of ice. Didn’t touch the furs. Get down here right away.”
   The black Chevie streaked downtown to the Lord Calvert Hotel in six minutes.
   The Jewel and Fur Shop was on the mezzanine floor of the big hotel, overlooking the ornate lobby, but set well back from it. There were several other shops, a travel bureau, and the hotel’s business offices there, and after the close of the business day the mezzanine was usually quite deserted. It was reached either by elevator or by a broad staircase from the lobby.
   Phil Egan bounded up the stairs. There were two policemen outside the Jewel and Fur Shop. Inside were Mike Casey and two detectives, the manager of the hotel, and a Mr. Birnbaum, who managed the shop. There were wisps of acrid blue smoke still floating around, and the sharp odor of acetylene gas. The door of the safe was open, and there was a round hole about a foot in diameter where the lock had been.
   “Hello, Mike,” Egan said. “How’d they get in?” He added in an aside: “As if I didn’t know.”
   “Like always,” grated Casey. “They unlocked the door with a key and walked in.”
   “Anybody see them?”
   “Maintenance man in the basement saw three guys in overalls go up in the self-service freight elevator about quarter of eleven. One of them was carrying a big canvas bag, like a laundry bag. They must have got off at the mezzanine, opened the door with a key, cut the lock out of the safe with theacetylene, grabbed the ice, and left the same way they came.”
   “Anybody see them go out?” Egan asked.
   “No. At least, we haven’t turned up anybody yet.”
   “Hm. In that canvas bag they must have had one of those baby tanks of acetylene — the kind you carry in your arms — and a blowtorch. They knew when the night watchman rang in from the mezzanine and timed it just right. They opened the door with a key, cut the lock out of the safe with the acetylene, grabbed the ice, shoved it into the bag with the acetylene tank, and left the same way they came, by the freight elevator.”
   “Yeah,” said Casey. “And acetylene gas, which brings a heat of sixty-three hundred degrees Fahrenheit to the point of contact, can cut through steel like a sharp knife through a tender steak — as every damned crook knows.”
   One of the detectives came over to them.“This might be something.” He handed Phil Egan a small metal gauge. “We found it under a chair.”
   Egan examined it curiously and stuck it in his topcoat pocket.“Anything else?”
   “That’s all,” said the detective.
   Egan spent the next day interrogating employees of the hotel and the Jewel and Fur Shop. There were two of the latter, a woman in her fifties and a man in his sixties. Both had been with the shop for more than ten years, both were bonded, both had airtight alibis, as did Birnbaum himself. Their keys, they swore, had not left their possession.
   Egan had been hoping for some evidence of an inside job, but there was none. How the hell were they getting thekeys? The police lab could uncover no trace of wax around the lock on the shop’s door. No identifiable fingerprints, either — outside of those of Birnbaum and the two employees.
   The interrogation of the hotel employees turned up only one interesting item— the maintenance man who had seen the three thieves get in the freight elevator made a fairly positive identification of a mug shot of Binky Byers as one of the three.
   Binky, who was currently throwing money around The Block, was now tentatively linked to the last two jewelry heists.
   Three nights later Phil Egan prowled The Block again. Most of the people hadn’t heard anything, but when he came into the Three O’Clock Club, Haydee Melendez left the man she was drinking with at the bar and nodded towards a table in a dark corner.
   “’Allo Eegan,” she said. “Zat Peet — he’s here last night wiz same two pals. Me, two uzzer girls, we treenk wiz zem. Zey ask us come up zair place for party after club close. I zay ‘Who the hell are you an’ ware you place?’ Zey zay: ‘You’ll come up?’ We zay sure, we like partymucho. Zo Pete, he write down names and ware place is. I got paper in dressing room. Wait, I get.” She bounced up.
   Phil Egan sighed and ordered a bourbon and water. His hands were a little shaky. The unsolved jewelry heists were getting on his nerves, what with the newspapers demanding a shakeup in the Police Department and Mike Casey breathing hotly down his back. And now maybe the first small crack in the case was beginning to open up.
   Haydee came back and handed him a piece of paper. On it in pencil was scrawled: Pete Byers, Maury Mahaffey, Frank Visconti— 674 Preston Street, Apartment 3B.
   Egan smiled and said:“Good girl, Haydee. Have a drink — a real one?”
   “No, I got go back to heem.” She nodded in the direction of the man at the bar. “Ware my feefty dollah, Eegan?”
   He handed her two twenties and a ten.“How was the party?” he asked.
   She laughed.“You don’ theenk we go, do you? ’Bye Eegan.”
   6.
   The next time Egan ate at Muriel’s, she asked him, as they sipped their pre-dinner martinis: “Why don’t you arrest those three punks you’re cat-and-mousing up there on Preston Street? After all, you can connect them to the last two robberies.”
   He shook his head.“They’re connected, but just barely so. I want that gang’s brains, not just its muscle. They’re getting ready to hit again, and when they do we’ll be waiting for them.”
   “It’s none of my business,” she said, “but aren’t you overlooking one important angle?”
   “All the angles I can overlook from here are pretty good.”
   “Lecher!” She drew her housecoat tighter. “No, seriously, Phil, your locksmith is obviously the brains of the outfit. He had to learn locksmithing somewhere, didn’t he?”
   He said thoughtfully:“It isn’t something you just pick up.”
   “Where do they teach it?” she asked.
   “Trade schools, YMCA courses, night schools. Places like that.”
   “You said the gang was local, so chances are your brain studied locksmithing here. The schools probably keep records of their graduates. Go through the records and check out any that look interesting.”
   “That is an angle that would bear investigating,” he said “And that’s a curve that would also—”
   She laughed and drew away from him.“Oh, cut it out. I’m serious. Hurry up and catch those jewel thieves so we can start having fun again.”
   What she had said about the locksmith started him thinking, though. It was like looking for the proverbial needle in a haystack, but even a 1000-to-1 shot looked like good odds in this case.
   The next morning he called in Detective Sergeant Terence Clancy.“Check out all the trade schools, the YMCAs, the night schools, and any other places you can think of that might teach locksmithing. Go back ten years and list all their graduates, what they’re doing now, and where.”
   Clancy groaned.“Hell, Phil, there are eighteen public trade schools alone in town. I know, because I had to check them once before. This’ll take to Christmas at least.”
   “Take two men to help you. And hurry it up!”
   Clancy groaned loudly and went out, but Egan knew he’d get the list in a couple of days. Clancy was a griper, but a good man.
   From the stakeout on Preston Street he learned that Byers, Mahaffey, and Visconti had two visitors practically every night. One was a tall, thin man of about thirty who wore horn-rimmed glasses and drove a sporty little red Italian sports car. The other was a man of medium height, stocky, who arrived in a blue panel truck marked“Elite Bakery, 3714 Harford Road.” The license plate on the sports car was Maryland 292–861; that on the panel truck was Maryland 728–592.
   He called the Motor Vehicle Department.“This is Lieutenant Egan, Police Department. Will you check out these license plates for me? Maryland 292–861, and Maryland 728–592.”
   The girl on the other end said;“Just a minute, Lieutenant.” Then, after a long pause: “Here they are, Lieutenant. Maryland 292–861 is a Fiat sports car and it is registered in the name of Mrs. Stuart R. Heisman, 1821 Belair Road. Maryland 728–592 is a Ford panel truck registered in the name of Harold J. O’Konski, 3714 Harford Road.”
   “Thank you, honey,” said Egan.
   The next thing to do was to find out as much as possible about the men who drove to the nightly rendezvous with Byers, Mahaffey, and Visconti.
   He had traffic cops stop both men to look at driver’s licenses and ask routine questions. Thus he learned that the driver of the sports car was Stuart R. Heisman, out of the army about a year, married, no children, worked as a pharmacist at the Belair Drug Store near his home on Belair road. He answered questions easily, was self-possessed, and seemed all right.
   The Ford panel truck was driven by Harold J. O’Konski, 31, also out of the army about a year, married, no children. He and his wife ran the Elite Bakery on Harford Road. They lived over the bakery, and O’Konski used the truck to deliver pies, cakes, and other baked goods to restaurants in the northeast Baltimore area. He was laconic, maybeeven a bit surly, but he, too, seemed all right.
   But a pharmacist and a baker as the brains of a gang that included simple thugs like Byers, Visconti, and Mahaffey? It didn’t add up.
   Then, suddenly, everything began to fall into place, as it usually does when the police have done their homework well. A routine check with Identification disclosed that while Heisman was completely clean, O’Konski had been picked up leaving the scene of a crime at a shopping center not far from his bakery and home.
   A sporting goods store had been held up about a week before, by four men wearing stocking masks. But O’Konski claimed that he had merely been delivering pies to a restaurant in the shopping center and had tried to speed away when he heard the police sirens, not wanting to get mixed up in anything. They didn’t really have anything on him, and he had been released with a reprimand.
   Of course Egan had heard about the hold-up of the sporting goods store, but it was Burglary’s case, not his, and he hadn’t paid too much attention. But with the discovery that O’Konski had been at the scene of the crime, he was all ears. What had been taken from the sporting goods store, he asked Identification.
   Five Colt .38 revolvers and about a hundred rounds of ammunition, Identification reported. No money! Only the guns and ammo. The hold-up men had ignored $138.60 in the till.
   The M.O. had been the same as in the hold-up of the Texaco station in Towson. The thieves had ignored everything except what they needed for their next job. And, if their previous M.O. meant anything, that next job must be close at hand.
   Two days later the complaining Clancy brought in his list of all the locksmiths graduated from trade, YMCA, and night schools during the past ten years. First, Egan had a secretary pick out of it— with the cooperation of Identification — any locksmiths with known criminal records. There were five. One had recently died, two were back in prison, one had spent the last two months in Johns Hopkins Hospital, and one was now a bartender on The Block with an airtight alibi. Nothing there.
   Next, he had her pick out all the trained locksmiths who were now engaged in another profession, or were unemployed. There were 247 names on this list.
   And, about a third of the way down the list, was paydirt. It read: Heisman, Stuart R. Graduated Ensor Street Commercial and Trade School, June, 1958. U.S. Army, 1958–1961. Present address: 1821 Belair Road. Present occupation: Pharmacist, Belair Drug Store, 1647 Belair Road.
   Egan went down the police garage, picked up the black Chevie, and drove out to the Ensor Street Commercial and Trade School. The principal there turned out to be a white-haired old gentleman named Brierly, who had occupied his position for twenty-one years.
   “I remember Stuart Heisman very well,” he told Egan. “Quiet, studious boy, with an inventive mind. I remember one thing he put together while he was here. He could have patented it, it was that good.”
   “What was that, sir.”
   “A key-maker. It was a boxlike thing. It would probe any lock with a very slender gauge and then record the depth of the tumblers, the spring tensions, and all the rest. Then you fed in a piece of metal, turned a dial to the proper setting, and out dropped your new key. I wonder if he ever did anything with it?”
   “Well,” said Egan guardedly, “I don’t know, but I think he did.”
   Old Mr. Brierly said:“If you could get hold of his friend — they roomed together at the YMCA on Franklin Street while they were in school here — he could tell you more about Heisman. They were inseparable. Went into the army together, as a matter of fact. Oh, what was his name?”
   “Was he a locksmith, too?”
   “No. He studied welding — acetylene gas welding. Pretty good at it, too.”
   “Could it have been O’Konski, sir?”
   “That’s it — Harold O’Konski. You know him?”
   “A little. Well, thank you, Mr. Brierly. You’ve been very helpful.” Egan rose to go.
   The old man said:“I hope Stuart isn’t in any trouble.”
   “We don’t know yet. Goodbye, Mr. Brierly.”
   8.
   At the corner of 33rd Street and York Road there was an all-night diner. The Plymouth parked in front of it and Byers, Mahaffey, and Visconti went in and ordered coffee. Egan parked the Chevie across the street from the diner, and awaited developments. He saw the tan Buick parked about a block back, too far to be identified from the diner.
   About five minutes later O’Konski’s Elite Bakery truck appeared, parked behind Byers’ Plymouth, and O’Konski went into the diner. A Chesapeake Telephone Company repair truck passed the diner, turned into a side street, and parked.
   Egan breathed a sigh of relief. He picked up the walkie-talkie.“Nice going, phone company. The pigeons are roosting. One more to come. Over and out.”
   They didn’t have long to wait. The Mercury appeared, coming slowly up 33rd street, made the York Road turn, and parked. Heisman went into the diner.
   It was exactly 4:15 a.m.
   Five minutes later Heisman, O’Konski, Byers, Mahaffey, and Visconti emerged from the diner and headed for their respective cars.
   Egan grabbed the walkie-talkie.“Same M.O. as before. Take the same car, and for God’s sake don’t lose it!”
   The three gang cars all turned into York Road and proceeded slowly south, towards the downtown area, followed at a distance of two blocks by the three police vehicles.
   At North Avenue each of the three gang cars suddenly bolted in a different direction. Heisman gunned the Mercury west on North Avenue; O’Konski shot off east towards Harford Road; Byers went straight south on York Road, which at this point became Greenmount Avenue.
   Heisman slowed again, then speeded up, turned left on St. Paul Street, and headed downtown. Egan, a block behind, clung to him like a used car dealer to a sweepstakes winner.
   The walkie-talkie clicked. Lou Grissom said mournfully:“Sorry, Phil, we lost ours. The Plymouth shook us. It turned east on Biddle Street. A trailer-truck got between us and when we passed it the Plymouth was gone.”
   “Never mind,” said Egan. “I think we’re getting close. Come fast and fall in behind me about Monument Street. Over and out.”
   At St. Paul and Monument he saw by the rearview mirror that the Buick had come up and was following about two blocks back.
   Heisman, apparently satisfied that he was not being followed, turned west off St. Paul Street, crossed Howard in the heart of the downtown shopping and theatrical district, turned into Saratoga, then went left off Saratoga on to Green Street.
   He parked two stores down from the Lattman Jewelry Store, a large, flashy emporium that specialized in selling jewelry on time at high interest rates to not too prosperous customers.
   The area, although downtown, was a bit seedy. Not far from brightly-lighted Howard Street, it was dark and deserted at 4:45 a.m.
   Egan drove slowly past Green Street and saw Heisman parked near the jewelry store. He kept on going and parked on Saratoga, out of sight of Heisman. A chill fall wind keened down the dark, empty street.
   The tan Buick passed him, went around the block, and came back up to park on Saratoga, just across Green Street from the Chevie, and also out of Heisman’s sight.
   The Elite Bakery truck turned into Green Street off Fayette. O’Konski parked across the street from Heisman and walked over to join the latter in the front seat of the Mercury. Coming into Green off Fayette, he had not seen the Buick and the Chevie parked on opposite corners of Saratoga and Green.
   In a few minutes Byers’ black Plymouth appeared, also turning into Green from Fayette. A block behind it the telephone company truck went on past Green Street, turned the corner, and headed for Saratoga Street. It parked behind the Buick. All the walkie-talkies were open.
   “This is it,” Egan said. “Con, do your stuff!”
   Detective Con McClure, dressed and smelling like a bum, took a pint of cheap whiskey from the Buick’s glove compartment, spattered some over his clothes, and, bottle in hand, staggered towards Green Street.
   He saw Byers, acting as a lookout, walking slowly up towards Saratoga Street, and Visconti, also a lookout, standing in a doorway near Fayette Street. Heisman, carrying the attache case, O’Konski, cradling a small cylinder of acetylene gas in his arms, and Mahaffey, one of the stolen Colt .38’s in hand, were walking rapidly towards the entrance to the jewelry store.
   In a few seconds Byers would reach the corner of Green and Saratoga, see the three police cars, get suspicious, and give the alarm.
   McClure, waving his bottle, staggered towards him, shouting:“Have a lil drink, fren!”
   Byers stopped, put his hand in his pocket, then drew it out empty. He called to the men in the jewelry store doorway:“Just a goddam drunk. Nothing to worry about.”
   McClure gripped Byers by the coat lapel.“Jus’ one won’t hurt, fren’. S’my birthday!”
   Byers laughed good-naturedly.“Okay,” he said. “Gimme the damn bottle.”
   Out of the corner of his eyes McClure saw Heisman take a small black box out of the attache case, hold it up to the lock, adjust a dial, and—clink. Out fell a newly-made key.
   Heisman picked it up, unlocked the door, and he and O’Konski went in. Mahaffey, gun in hand, nervously watched Byers and the “bum.”
   “Get rid of him!” he growled.
   “Go sleep it off in some alley,” said Byers, shaking himself loose from McClure’s grasp.
   McClure hurled the whiskey bottle to the pavement, where it smashed with the sound of a firecracker.
   That was the signal they’d been waiting for. The six detectives erupted from their cars, guns in hand, and raced around the corner towards the jewelry store.
   The“bum” yanked out his gun, but Mahaffey’s shot caught him in the right hip and he went down. As he fell he fired and hit Mahaffey in the groin. Mahaffey dropped his gun and sank slowly to the pavement, his hands clutching the wound.
   Byers got off one shot that sang by Egan’s ear. Egan’s own bullet hit him in the neck and Byers flopped to the sidewalk like a stranded fish, the blood gurgling through the hole in his throat, and running across the sidewalk into the gutter.
   Visconti was far enough away to make a run for the Elite Bakery truck. He got it started and raced for Saratoga Street, trying to hit Steve Kohnstamm, who was running across the street towards the jewelry store. Steve dove out of the way, breaking his wrist as he fell. His own gun clattered to the pavement.
   Egan, Clancy, Grissom, and Smyth riddled the windshield; a red flower blossomed in the middle of Visconti’s face. The truck veered crazily, careened towards the sidewalk, and smashed through the display window of a men’s clothing store.
   The sudden burst of noise was now replaced by an eerie silence. The interior of the jewelry store was dark and quiet. Detective Murphy, gun in hand, had gone down an alley to guard the rear door.
   The street looked like a battle scene. Visconti, dead, his face and body full of glass splinters, hung half in and half out of the driver’s seat of the Elite Bakery truck, his blood dripping on the neat window display of men’s white button-down shirts.
   Byers, not dead but dying, lay face down on the sidewalk, the blood still bubbling out of the hole in his throat. Mahaffey lay groaning in front of the jewelry store, his hands over the wound in his groin, blood seeping through them.
   Detective McClure, the wounded“bum” — had half propped himself against a lamp post. Detective Kohnstamm sat on the sidewalk with his feet in the gutter, holding his head down, trying to keep from fainting as his right hand flopped grotesquely at the end of his broken wrist.
   Egan yelled into the dark void of the jewelry store.“You’ve had it, Heisman! Back door’s covered! Throw out those thirty-eights!”
   Silence. Then a .38 was kicked out through the wide-open door, followed by another. O’Konski and Heisman, hands joined behind their necks, came out.
   By now squad cars and ambulances were pouring into the area, and a small crowd had materialized out of nowhere to gape in amazement at the bodies, the blood, the prisoners. Phil Egan phoned Mike Casey, then bustled Heisman and O’Konski, handcuffed together, into the back seat of the Chevie for the ride down to Headquarters. Clancy, gun in hand, sat with them, and Smyth rode up front with Phil.
   Heisman, the brain, was calm but dejected. O’Konski, smothered in gloom, snarled and cursed and refused to talk.
   Heisman, clinically interested in the failure of his ingenious plan, said:“Where did I goof? What tipped you?”
   Egan replied:“Byers, when he left his car out near that Texaco station in Towson. How’d he happen to do that?”
   Heisman gritted his teeth.“The fat, stupid jerk! Our three goons — the Outfit provided them, partly to protect us and partly to make sure we didn’t pull a double cross — had the Plymouth and the Bakery truck that night. Byers was the lookout. After the job, he couldn’t get the Plymouth going right away, so he panicked and jumped in the truck with the others. Next time it won’t—”
   Egan interrupted.“There won’t be a next time, Heisman. You’re going on an extended vacation.”
   Heisman was silent.
   After Heisman and O’Konski had been booked and jailed, Egan wrote out his report. Dawn was beginning to light the eastern sky as he headed the black Chevie towards Muriel’s apartment on Mount Vernon Place. He had promised to come up no matter what time it was, so he did.
   She answered the bell in a revealing black negligee, but it was easy to tell she hadn’t been sleeping. Her eyes were red and tired-looking and the ashtrays were full of lipstick-stained, half-smoked butts.
   Wordlessly they embraced.
   He sank into an easy chair.“I could use a drink,” he said. “Or two or three.”
   She mixed him a stiff bourbon and water, and as he sipped it he told her all about it.“Heisman and O’Konski planned the whole thing when they were in the army together. It was in the army that O’Konski learned to be a baker and Heisman a pharmacist. They learned those trades as a cover. They even got married as a cover. Heisman is a genius but he has the heart of a born thief who’d rather steal ten bucks than make a hundred legit.
   “If he patents that key-making thing of his, he’ll pile up a fortune in prison. He took the whole plan to the syndicate boys and they okayed it for a forty percent cut. Byers, Visconti, and Mahaffey were lent to Heisman as muscle, to do the necessary stealing, act as lookouts, and stuff like that. Also to see that Heisman and O’Konski didn’t cross the big boys.
   “We got to them largely through Byers, although your idea about the locksmiths was a big help. Byers is dead. So is Visconti. Mahaffey is shot up and may not make it. Con McClure has a smashed hip and Steve Kohnstamm a broken wrist.”
   “God,” she murmured. “What a night!”
   As Thanksgiving Day dawned, they drank bourbon and ate some scrambled eggs and finally fell asleep in each other’s arms on the floor in front of the fireplace.
   Truck Drivers Like Girls
   by Dorothy Madle
   The party at the O’Mearas’ nearly new ranch house was just getting a good start when six more guests arrived, people Rod O’Meara worked with. He had forgotten to tell Marian that he had invited them.
   She welcomed them, saw to the disposal of their wraps, then fled to the kitchen. Rod was making six new drinks.
   “I’m sorry, Tiger-cat,” he said. “I mentioned the party days ago and that bunch was committed elsewhere, for some dinner or other. I didn’t think they were coming. You may scratch me, but don’t be mad.”
   “I’m not.” Marian stretched on tiptoe and nipped his ear. He set down the bottle and jigger to put his arms around her.
   “You’re my favorite small blonde. If this weren’t our seventh wedding anniversary, I’d marry you.”
   She opened the door of the liquor cabinet, then checked mentally the cold buffet waiting to be served after midnight.
   “Rod, I allowed for two or three extra people, but not six. And there’s a run on bourbon. Famine and thirst will stalk this house tonight.”
   He lined up the six glasses on a tray.“All right. Go in and circulate. There’s an all-night delicatessen on Oakland and Caldwell, and a superbar beside it. I’ll go and fetch.”
   She took up the tray, then set it down again.
   “No, you go in and make like a host. You know the new people and I don’t. I haven’t even got their names straight. Entertain them and I’ll slip out and get the stuff.” She crossed the hallway to the coat closet and he followed.
   “You’re a pretty thing tonight. Don’t be gone long.”
   “I won’t.”
   Rod held the honey-color beaver coat, her anniversary present, and she slipped into it. The color matched her hair. Her long party earrings picked up flecks of green in her grey eyes.
   “I don’t like you driving alone on a foggy night. Have you had your car checked lately?”
   “It’s running fine.” Marian grinned up at him. “Anyway, you know nothing bad can happen to me on the road. If I stall or anything, a truck driver always appears — pouf! — out of the air or somewhere, and gets me going again.”
   “I don’t believe in your friendly truck drivers. None of them ever helpedme.”
   “Naturally not. Truck drivers like girls. ’Bye. I’ll be quick, darling.”
   She turned in the doorway.“You might look in on Midge and Teddy. They were sleeping like fat little angels half an hour ago, but the party noises might waken them.”
   Marian backed her winter-splashed car out of the garage. A random harmony of voices, music, and laughter followed her into the road. The house looked festive, even elegant, with its big windows glowing and the guests’ cars lining half of the block.
   Marian had not really wanted to move to the suburbs, but people kept saying country life was better for children. Now she wasn’t sorry. Entertaining a lot of people at once was fun, and they couldn’t have done it in the city apartment.
   It seemed darker than usual as she drove toward the reddish cloud of bottom-lighted fog that marked the city. She turned on the radio. A jazz quartet was playing cool crystalline improvisations. Nice— but the music broke off.
   “We interrupt to bring you a news bulletin. An attack tonight on Mrs. Doris Clift, twenty-nine, of seven-twelve North Inshore Drive, has led police to believe the psychotic killer who in three weeks has taken the lives of four Chicago women, may now be at large here in Meridian.
   “Like the Chicago victims, Mrs. Clift was struck over the head and strangled. Her car had left the road and veered across a curb, a few country blocks from her home. But her assailant was interrupted by the approach of Frederick T. Sayers, forty-six, of five-eighty Smith Place, who was walking with his two Boxer dogs on leashes. Sayers told police he saw the stalled car as he emerged from beyond a clump of shrubbery, and heard moans. The dogs jerked away from him as a man jumped from the car and ran into the shadows, apparently cutting directly across a lawn. The dogs gave chase but came back to Sayers after the sound of a motor indicated the man had driven away.
   “Sayers got only indistinct glimpses of the man, and he did not see the vehicle. Mrs. Clift, in serious condition at Saint Mary’s Hospital, could not be questioned. Her husband, Anthony Clift, an attorney, told police she was to have joined him and a group of friends at a downtown restaurant. She was in evening dress. One of her jade earrings had been ripped off, tearing an earlobe.
   “Like the four Chicago women, Mrs. Clift is an attractive blonde.”
   Marian shivered. She raised a hand to slip off her own earrings, but returned it firmly to the wheel. She would not get all jittery because a psycho was partial to youngish blonde women dressed for parties. The announcer’s voice droned on.
   “A crumpled piece of paper found in Mrs. Clift’s car seems to indicate beyond reasonable doubt that her attacker was the Chicago killer. It had been torn in half. Pencilled heavily in black were the words ‘Repent, ye daughters of—’ and parts of scrawls that might represent words in an unknown or secret script. Psychiatrists who examined similar notes left with the Chicago victims said the use of a private language points strongly to a psychotic derangement of severe type.”
   Marian snapped off the radio.
   The highway had seemed strangely empty. Now, nearing the two stores, she realized she had half forgotten how dark and lifeless a city street can look two hours before a winter midnight.
   She parked and ran into the superbar on her thin, glittering heels. Men lined on barstools turned to stare as she took two bottles of bourbon from a shelf, gave the bartender a ten and a five and waited while he put the bottles in a bag and rang up her change.
   In the delicatessen next door she bought hastily, choosing cold meats, a cheese, a long loaf of rye bread. She hurried out, the two bags awkward in her arms, her purse dangling from her wrist. She jammed the bag with the bottles inside the larger one, freeing a hand to open the car door.
   “Damn,” she muttered as a fingernail tip sheared off against a rim of the steering wheel.
   She shoved the unwieldy bag along the seat and slipped in beside it. She should have put the stuff on the floor in back where it would be more stable, she supposed. But depositing it on the seat was quicker, and Marian was tense with impatience to get home, to touch her children’s sleeping heads and to be in her living room with her guests.
   The dark had grown thicker, capsuling the glow of street lights inside their own haloes. Marian took her car keys from their place— deplored by Rod and illegal in their state — above the visor. The car started with the sputter, suggestive of post-nasal drip, which it always developed in damp and chilly weather.
   Fog shortened the flare of her headlights. She left the curb and a truck, parked two car-lengths behind, started up at the same moment. It followed close at her rear, its headlights turned on bright, glaring back from her mirror into her eyes.
   At first Marian felt only a mild annoyance. She kicked her own lights to bright and back to dim, to remind the other driver that he was violating the traffic regulations. The truck lights did not respond.
   She shrugged. Marian’s frequent claim that truck drivers were homely knights dedicated to the succor of frail — though adept — women motorists had not been entirely a joke. Often in minor emergencies they had stopped to help. Now, just when her nerves were jangled anyway, she had to encounter a slob of a driver who seemed intent on blinding her.
   But then, you couldn’t expect everyone to conform to an occupational pattern. Look at butchers. Once she had known a nice, sensitive butcher who painted in oils, assiduously avoiding the use of the color red.
   But damn it, why didn’t a policeman flag down this creep and make him dim his lights? She had not seen a policeman, a highway patrolman, or a prowl car since she left home.
   Her annoyance fizzed as she crossed an intersection and the truck stayed with her. She pulled to the curb, slowed almost to a stop, and signalled firmly for the truck to continue on. The truck pulled over too, and remained behind her.
   She pressed the accelerator as hard as she dared in the tunnel of fog. Laboring noisily, the truck speeded up. Marion’s annoyance changed to real anger. Probably it was some juvenile delinquent acting out his hostilities on wheels borrowed from his hard-working Papa.
   She had paid no attention to the truck when it had been parked on the street, and since then the glare had made it indistinguishable. But she knew it was not a very large one, nor a van. She had not seen the driver at all.
   She would turn off Oakland and go out Shore Drive. Perhaps he would tire of his silly sport. If not, there ought to be traffic patrolmen there.
   She turned right, suddenly and without signalling. The truck braked and turned after her. On the cross street she stopped for a barely visible stop sign. The truck stopped and started with her, keeping the distance unchanged. She suppressed a crazy impulse to slam into reverse and ram him with her rear bumper.
   She swerved left into Shore Drive. The truck swerved with her. She blinked, eyes smarting from the mirrored glare. A small stalagmite of fear was edging up inside her anger. Possibly this was not a prankster.
   Choosing Shore Drive had been a mistake, Marian decided. There was not another car in sight. At the right was a ledge, a slope of trees, a stretch of beach and then the lake, all greyed out by the fog. At the left was open park land, then a steep wooded cliff. On top of it, but invisible now, were perched grey stone mansions whose slit-windowed turrets peered down to the lake. They were inaccessible from this side. There was a long stretch of drive with no possibility of turning off except into the deserted park.
   Now that Marian had let herself recognize her fear, it spread along her nerves like ice. She felt wetness inside her gloves, and fear pricked up along her spine like the fur of a frightened cat.
   She speeded up to fifty, hoping desperately to hear the siren of a lurking prowl car. But there were curves ahead and she dared not maintain the speed. She braked, belatedly seeing the first curve. The bag beside her toppled and fell to the floor of the car. There was the sound of glass cracking and the sharp smell of whiskey began to fill the car. The truck’s tires screeched behind her, barely slowing in time.
   “So if a cop should materialize he’d probably book me for drunkenness or something,” she said aloud. “That would be lovely. But there aren’t any cops. They all took off for Mars an hour ago. Stop talking, Marian O’Meara. You’re scared to death. You’re a gibbering mess of fright. Putyourself together.”
   She gripped the wheel unnecessarily hard, slowing for the next curve.
   “I never believed much in things that goboomp in the night and things that sayboo. I do now, though.”
   She tried not to imagine the face of the insane murderer in the truck— at last she had let herself admit that it probablywas the psycho— which she had not even glimpsed in reality. A huge man with loose lips and little, mad red eyes?
   But no, judging from the hell-fire messages he had left with his victims. More likely he was tall and gaunt, with thin lips and cavernous eyes, a self-tormented ascetic except when his hatred of evil turned into a wilder hatred of attractive women, because to him they were instruments of evil.
   But I’m not, Rod. I’m not, Teddy and Midge. I don’t deserve this for anything, do I?
   Silly. People don’t get chased by homicidal nuts because they do or don’t deserve it. They get pursued because something — color of hair, a way of walking, or being gaily dressed, reminds some split-off part of the psycho’s mind of what he hates or fears.
   Marian was in the suburbs now, nearing the end of Shore Drive. There would be houses with driveways, with lights over front doors and people in lighted rooms who could be called. True, the business part of Brookdale would be closed and dark, but—
   The filling station. That big lovely service station, filling a corner lot with its batteries of gas pumps, its white garage and its cheerful attendants! Only last Saturday night she and Rod had stopped there close to midnight. It had been open. A pleasant young negro had filled their tank, and he and a brisk red-haired young man had wiped the car windows.
   With longing, with rising hope, Marian held up the two faces before the eyes of her mind.“Check your oil and water, Ma’am?” Strong young men, wholesome-looking young men, please be there.
   She turned right into the station, seeing a gleam of light inside the garage, refusing to believe the pumps were unlighted. The filling station was closed. There was only a night light inside.
   She swung out again, still wearing the truck like an appendage to her car. Its lights blazed back from her mirror and she dabbed with her glove at a trickle of tears on her cheeks.
   As she swung back into the road she glanced at the gas gauge and froze. The needle was perilously close to“E.”
   “Dear God, forgive me my carelessness, my rattling brains that don’t remember such things as keeping a full gas tank. Forgive me this one more time and make the gas last until I find help.”
   The business street of Brookdale was deserted as she had known it would be. Damn those village fathers who vote every year not to allow a tavern in the town. It would be open now, with a juke box playing corn and a lot of beautiful, sloppy, jolly people at the bar. Would that offend the stuffy suburbanites more than the notoriety of a messy murder on their streets? But perhaps it wouldn’t come to that. They’d simply move her body, leave it somewhere in the city, and keep embarrassment out of Brookdale.
   And where was the village police station? Marian had never thought to find out. Off on a side street somewhere, but she did not dare to leave the highway and search the dark cross streets.
   She recalled a glimpse of the station, a genteel white phony colonial house complete with elms and marked with an unobtrusive sign— POLICE. She wouldn’t see the small sign in this darkness, nor would she recognize the building.
   She drove on, between large houses set far back on landscaped lawns. Where was everyone? Lights gleamed dimly from some of the windows, but you could not be sure which houses actually had people— living, moving, waking people — inside. If she guessed wrong, there probably would be no second chance.
   Headlights appeared suddenly as a car rounded a bend ahead, then a second pair. Two cars driving rather fast toward her. She slowed, sounded her horn, and gestured in frantic signals as the first car came near. It met hers and passed on. She braked to a full stop, hoping to attract attention in the second car. It slowed a little, then went on.
   Marian allowed herself, briefly, to weep. In this over-populated world, was it impossible to contact a human being?
   She swerved into a driveway that circled before a big square-built house with lights somewhere inside. The truck circled with her, keeping the distance unchanged. She stopped opposite the front door and leaned on her horn, sending blast after blast of sound into the stillness, quieting her own breath to listen for a response. A dog barked somewhere in the house.
   Marian thought she saw movement, but the door remained closed. She rested her throbbing head on the steering wheel a moment, then straightened it, wiped her eyes with the back of her gloved hand and drove into the road again.
   She was lost, she realized dully. She was still on Highway 31, but in her panic she had missed the turnoff that would take her home. Now, she thought with desolation, even if Rod should become worried and start out to look for her, he would never find her. Naturally, he would turn toward the city.
   Time had stopped. Marian felt as if she had been driving on this road forever, through terrain that was ghostly and unfamiliar in the fog. There was no hope, and she hardly noticed a dim red gleam ahead. It went into focus as she approached and turned into Neon letters— BECK’S MOTEL.Vacancy. She turned into driveway edged with white wagon wheels. The truck followed.
   She flung open the car door and ran toward a lighted entrance, her heels catching in ice-clotted gravel. In the office a woman with grey-streaked brown hair looked up from her magazine.“May I telephone?” Marian asked.
   The woman gestured.“There’s a phone booth outside.”
   “Please, I’m in trouble. A man in a truck is following me. He’s out there now, waiting behind my car. Can’t I call from in here?”
   The woman got up and went to the door. For a moment Marian thought she was about to be sent out again into the nightmare. But the woman set the night latch instead.
   “Use the phone on the desk.”
   Marian dialed with frantic fingers. Rod’s “Hello?” sounded near, but it was a voice remembered with longing from a distant past. She realized she had not expected ever to hear it again.
   “Rod... Rod—”
   “Hold it, Baby. What’s wrong?”
   “Come and get me, Rod. Beck’s Motel, Highway Thirty-one.”
   “I know where it is. What’s the matter?”
   “Quickly, please, please. Hurry.”
   His voice sobered and sharpened.“Hang on. I’m coming.”
   Marian swayed as she got up from the chair. The woman guided her to another one, went back to the desk and dialed.
   “Highway patrol? This is Mrs. Beck. Better send some men to Beck’s Motel. There’s a man outside, tried to molest a girl. All right. Thanks.”
   She crossed to Marian’s chair, put a hand under the shaking elbow and drew her up.
   “It’s all right. Now go into the powder room and fix your face. Dash on some cold water and comb your hair. I’ll make you a cup of coffee while you’re gone.”
   The powder room mirror showed a white face streaked with mascara and tears. Marian scrubbed, replaced the bitten-off lipstick and dusted powder onto the reddened nose. She found the comb in her purse but she had to steady her arm against the wall to control her shaking enough to use it.
   She came out and the woman poured from an electric percolator on a stand beside the desk. Marian sipped gratefully. Then there was a shriek of brakes as Rod’s sports car swerved into the drive.
   “Is that your husband?” Mrs. Beck asked, her hand on the latch.
   “Yes— Oh,yes!”
   Marian flung herself into Rod’s arms.
   “The truck— Oh Rod, I think that maniac is driving it. He followed me all the way from the store, crowding up close. Finally I panicked and missed the turn—”
   There was a scream of sirens, nearing.
   “Wait, Rod—” she clung but he ran out, jerked open the door of the truck, reached inside. Two patrolmen on motorcycles screeched up as Rod dragged the truck driver out, stood him up, and towered over him.
   He was a little man, elderly and frail. Perspiration stood in drops on his forehead, below a faded blue cap.
   “All right, Pop, tell your story. Fast.” Holding the man by the scruff of his collar, Rod shook him a little. The other fist seemed itching to strike.
   “Look quick — on the floor in the back of her car.”
   The patrolmen stepped over to Marian’s car, and one of them opened the door. Their revolvers whipped out. Rod joined them, still holding the little truck driver by his neck.
   “Come out of there,” a patrolman said.
   A giant of a man, tall and heavily built, unfolded himself and came out. He stood rigid, expressionless, unresisting as one officer held him by the arm while the other searched him thoroughly.
   “Let go of my neck, will you,” the truck driver said to Rod. The hand relaxed its hold and the little man straightened himself with dignity. “Your girl didn’t know she had a passenger, but I did.”
   The patrolman’s hand went in and out of the big man’s pockets. A club like those carried by policemen, but smaller, came out of one pocket. From another came a half sheet of paper, torn diagonally. The officer’s flashlight beam picked up black pencilled scrawls that were almost, but not quite, words.
   A station wagon with whirling red light on top rolled in the driveway, to a diminishing moan of siren. Two more highway patrolmen got out.
   Suddenly the big man jerked free of the officer’s hand and ran. One of the revolvers coughed, and the man fell.
   “You got him in the leg,” the lieutenant who seemed to be in charge said. “Load him in the wagon.”
   There was no sound from the prisoner as he was lifted and put into the station wagon. The two officers got in, the siren howled again and the wagon drove away.
   One of the troopers had his notebook out and the truck driver was telling his story.
   “Name’s Fred Buxton. I make short hauls — it’s my own truck. I was parked in front of the store, meaning to go in and buy a sandwich to take along. The lady parked in front of me and ran into the liquor store. I saw this man get out of another car that was parked across the street, without lights. The lady came out again and went into the delicatessen.
   “Instead of getting out of my truck and going on in the store I just sat there, because there was something I didn’t like about the way he watched her. When she went into the food store he opened her car door and crawled into the back. She came out and got in without looking, and drove off.
   “What could I do? I’d be no match for him. But I figured if I kept close with my bright lights on, he’d stay down. I thought any minute we’d see a cop, but we didn’t. So I just kept on following. I was scared she’d panic and wreck herself, but she’s a pretty cool girl. A real good driver, too.”
   Marian, safe in the tight circle of Rod’s arm, had stopped trembling. She told her story firmly, they gave names and ages and addresses. Then she walked over to the truck driver, put her arms around his neck, and kissed his cheek.
   “That,” she said, “was for saving my life.”
   She kissed him again, this time on the mouth.
   “And that was for saying I’m a good driver.”
   He returned the kiss with more fervor than his appearance would have caused a lady to predict
   “You are, Miss,” he said. “And you’re pretty, too.”
   He strutted a little, going back to his truck.
   Rod parked his sports car in the motel lot, handed Marian ceremoniously into the right front door of her car, went around and got behind the wheel.
   Steering expertly with one arm, he drove his wife back to their party. She had been away from it for an hour and ten minutes.
   Murder Slick as a Whistle
   by Arthur Porges
   Martin Calder said cheerfully,“Goering, you are going to kill your master for me.” The big, gentle Doberman, one hundred sixty pounds of loyalty and affection, whined. Whether this was because he objected to “Goering,” when his real name was Siegfried, or actually understood the implications of the threat against Tracy Benton, was known only to himself. Calder patted the sleek head, and the dog licked his hand.
   “You may say ‘no,’” Calder murmured, “but Pavlov says ‘yes’ — and my money’s on the famous Muscovite. The fact is, Hermann, he knew more about your species than you do about his. Goering, my boy,” he added wryly, “you’re living proof that dumb animals have no better intuition than people. If they did I’d be chewed to bits by now.”
   Actually Calder had nothing against the dog, which belonged to his brother-in-law. If he called him by so obnoxious a name, it was merely to annoy Tracy Benton, who hated the idea. As an excuse, Calder had drawn Tracy’s attention to the Doberman’s excess poundage, for certainly the animal was overfed.
   “Siegfried, my eye,” Calder had jibed some months earlier. “That hound looks more like Hermann Goering. He has the same fat-jowled, piglike face. All he needs is a gaudy uniform and eight pounds of medals.”
   This was a fair return, Calder felt, for having to endure Tracy’s choice of music on the hi-fi. It was the kind of music, he complained sourly to Elsie, his sister, that made Sir Adrian Boult. Elsie didn’t get it, but the joke relieved Calder’s feelings.
   Considering that Calder consistently sponged off her, his patronizing, thinly-veiled contempt for her slow-wittedness was hardly courteous; but until Tracy entered the picture, things had been perfect. Here was Calder’s sister, a pretty but brainless woman, recently widowed, and the owner of a quarter of a million dollars in income property, inherited from her first husband. It was not surprising that she had turned to her brother for help in managing this bonanza, and he had lived high on the hog for two years, pocketing a very unfair share of the profits. Since Elsie experienced difficulty in comprehending the economics of a one-cent sale, it had been ridiculously easy.
   But then along had come Tracy Benton, a pleasant, charming bachelor, an accountant by profession, and Elsie had leaped into his eager arms as if jet-propelled. Before Calder realized that they were past the hand-shaking stage he was on the outside looking in, and the gravy train had been derailed.
   No longer manager, he was merely an object of charity, permitted to live with the newlyweds, but on no better terms than Siegfried himself. He should have been grateful that Benton had refrained from exposing his criminal juggling of the books, but Martin Calder was not the grateful type.
   But all that was about to change now, because Calder had an ingenious mind and few scruples. He intended to make Elsie a widow again. It was almost poetic justice. The dog, which both of them seemed to prefer to him, would bring about the death of Benton.
   All Calder needed was a week or two alone with the animal, and that was in the offing right now. Tracy and his wife were leaving for New York on what Elsie liked to refer to as a“second honeymoon” and Calder would be left with Siegfried for at least a fortnight, which should give him plenty of time to complete the task he had in mind.
   The isolated house, high in the new Laguna Hills development, would be a perfect spot. Few of the new, plush homes there had been sold yet, and the Bentons had nearly five acres to themselves, the nearest neighbor being several streets away. There was the cleaning woman, of course, but she came only twice a week for a few hours, and would find nothing amiss.
   Once the couple were safely on a jet for New York, Calder hastened to implement his murder plan. The first item was a silent whistle, the kind pitched too high for human ears, but readily heard by a dog. That was the easy part. He bought it a number of miles away. Not that such a purchase was inherently grounds for suspicion; hundreds were bought yearly. But he was careful not to purchase it at a local store.
   Calder then proceeded to work on the dog’s collar, a stiff leather affair with heavy brass studs. Since it was well suited to his purpose, he saw no point in purchasing a collar of a different type, which he could easily have done. Using a long extension cord of tough rubber, he modified the collar just enough so that the studs could be electrified from any outlet. Now he was ready.
   Calder put the dog into an inner room of the big house, chaining him to a heavy steel fixture that protruded from the brick fireplace. The chain was so short that no matter how violently Siegfried struggled, he could put no strain on the rubber extension cord itself.
   Since Calder did not want the dog to associate him with its discomfort, he loosened the fuse controlling the room’s three outlets before plugging in the cord. Then he went down to the basement, blew a hard but noiseless blast on the whistle, and tightened the fuse.
   There was a yelp of agony above him as the big dog, in severe pain from the current at his throat, tore madly at the chain. Calder could hear him barking, whining, and thrashing about. He inflicted ten seconds of torment on the animal, then loosened the fuse again. Allowing Siegfried a few moments in which to calm down, Calder went upstairs.
   To his surprise, the dog obviously associated his reappearance with the cessation of pain, and seemed to regard him as a rescuer. It almost battered him to the floor with affectionate attentions. So much the better, Calder told himself. If the dog continued to prove so friendly in public, that fact alone would prevent anyone from suspecting the truth of their relationship.
   Every day for three weeks Calder continued this training. The dog could never know in advance when the whistle would sound, a prelude to ten seconds or more of almost unendurable torture. Long before the time was up Pavlov had been vindicated, since Siegfried no longer even waited for the actual shock, but went into a terrible frenzy the moment he heard a blast. The beast even frothed at the mouth.
   Then, when Calder came in a little later, the animal would greet him in a fit of wild joy and relief. There was no longer any doubt in his mind about the plan’s effectiveness. The timing was a problem, but there was no statute of limitations on that. He could repeat the conditioning until everything clicked.
   As a final step, he tested the effect of distance. Siegfried had no trouble hearing the whistle from two hundred yards away.
   When the Bentons returned from their trip, there was no outward evidence of Siegfried’s unpleasant new reflex. The cord was safely back among the tools. Only the whistle was left, hidden from view deep in Calder’s trouser pocket.
   On the day after their return, Tracy was to visit Los Angeles, a hundred miles from the Laguna Hills development. He usually made the trip twice a month to check over the rental and the occasional resale of Elsie’s city property. An hour before his brother-in-law was supposed to leave, Calder climbed into his own car, a beat-up MG, and set out to lay his trap.
   When Tracy came to the first turn-off on the freeway just west of the town, Calder was waiting on the shoulder. He spotted the big Buick on the inner and fastest lane. There could be no mistaking either the car or the huge dog sharing the front seat with the driver. Calder’s scheme depended upon this habit of Benton’s — taking Siegfried along on the Los Angeles drive.
   Calder immediately entered the stream of traffic, and by skillful maneuvering worked his way up to a place roughly one hundred yards behind the Buick, and in the slowest lane. He felt sorry for the innocent people whose lives would be endangered but there was no other way.
   To Martin Calder, at the moment, they were faceless abstractions. With luck, a big truck might come along where there was no other traffic. There was a fair likelihood that only Benton would die.
   But it wasn’t quite as easy as he’d hoped. Twice Tracy shifted to a slower lane where there was no chance to have a head-on collision, and several times Calder himself had to get into a faster lane in order to keep up with his brother-in-law. The inner stream of traffic was the one. Not a car there was doing under sixty-five, and only a few feet away, without so much as a low divider, was the reverse flow, traveling just as fast in the opposite direction.
   If two of those cars happened to meet head-on, with a combined velocity of a hundred and twenty or so, both drivers would almost certainly be killed.
   At last the right moment arrived. Tracy was back in the high speed lane, doing almost seventy towards the north. And coming up in the next lane, hurtling south at fifty-plus, was a small truck.
   Calder put the silent whistle in his mouth, checked his own position in the slow lane, well out of the imminent crash area, and blew a mighty blast, inaudible to human ears, but certain to reach those of Siegfried.
   In the Buick the great Doberman reacted according to his grim conditioning. At the sound of that ominous keening, which always meant a searing agony at his throat, the dog went wild, thrashing about with all his weight of a hundred and sixty pounds. He was barking, clawing, and even snapping at his own flesh.
   Through some saving remnant of affection for his master, even in that extremity, he did Tracy no direct harm. But the result otherwise was all too predictable. Benton lost control of the speeding car. It swerved into the stream of southbound traffic, meeting the truck head-on in a smashup that literally collapsed the vehicles.
   Both men died instantly, and in the resulting pile up of seven cars, more than a dozen people were injured. Even Calder, on the fringe, escaped only because of his knowledge of what was coming. He slowed and jounced onto the shoulder of the road in time.
   Suddenly he stiffened where he sat, his churning stomach tight from a new shock. From the tangle of crumpled, smoking steel, Siegfried had emerged. His muzzle was streaming blood from many cuts, and he limped badly. But by some miracle of tough bone and muscle, the dog was not severely injured. Now, frightened and bewildered, he must have scented a friend nearby, and was seeking him out. The Doberman headed unerringly towards Calder’s car.
   Calder’s mind began to race. It wouldn’t do to be found so close. Who knew what connection the police might be clever enough to make? The damned whistle was still on his person.
   Forgetting the pile-up he had just caused, Calder thought only of himself now. Hurriedly he tooled his MG back on the edge of the freeway, and inched past the nearest stalled car. Several drivers, trapped themselves, yelled at him angrily, but there were no patrol cars on the scene yet, so he made it to the next turn-off.
   Later, on a side road, he flung the whistle into a patch of weeds. What was done, was done; nobody could pin anything on Martin Calder. Elsie would be dependent on him again, and he’d take good care she didn’t meet any more hungry bachelors.

   At the funeral, three days later, Elsie was nearly hysterical in spite of two tranquilizers. Calder managed to look sorrowful, but internally he couldn’t help smiling. Most of the pleasure he felt was at the success of his brilliant stratagem. The rest was due to the ludicrous appearance of Siegfried, held well back from the grave by a friendly neighbor, and looking, with that mass of bandages, like a freakish human on all fours, rather than a dog.
   Standing at the foot of the grave, Calder heard the minister drone on; beside him, Elsie was whimpering again. Now they were lowering the coffin into the deep recess. Soon the whole messy business would be over, and things back to normal at home. His sister was basically shallow; she’d get over her loss easily enough. Control of a quarter of a million dollars was changing hands.
   A jet flew over, drowning out the minister’s final platitude; some of the mourners looked up in annoyance. And at that moment Siegfried went mad again. Yelping, whining, and writhing in an attempt to escape the invisible torment he was expecting, the dog tore free from his leash.
   In the extremity of his fear, he sought comfort where it had always been found after the ordeal of high voltage. He raced to Martin Calder, whimpering, and sprang into the man’s arms. Taken by surprise, off balance at the edge of the open grave, Calder tottered under the sudden impact, then with a choked cry fell backwards into the pit. The loud snap as his neck broke was audible some feet away, even to human ears.
   Everybody was staring at the dog; he was shaking himself, and seemed quite calm again. They could never know how the jet plane, as it hurtled over them at six hundred miles an hour had, at one point in its passage, generated a typical supersonic wave on the frequency of Calder’s whistle.
   The Marrow of Justice
   by Hal Ellson
   The coffin was a plain one, finished in the shop of Carlos Martinez, without frills, stark naked wood of soft pine. Harsh sunlight splintered off it as the men carried it through the miserable street, treading its dust, stones, and the scattered fire of tangerine peels withering in the heat.
   It was a day of flame but, in this land of perpetual sun, not unseasonable. No more than death. The poor in their shacks and crumbling adobes knew its ghastly visits all too frequently. Funerals were commonplace and all of a kind. A plain pine box for the deceased, four men to carry it and a small group of mourners following.
   A vast crowd followed the coffin of Rosa Belmonte, the third young girl in the city to die by violation in a brief period of three months. Half-starved dogs with ribs showing, children, toddlers, and beggars amidst the crowd lent it a pseudo air of carnival that was diluted by the sombre faces of adults and a muffled silence under which anger awaited eruption.
   The police felt it, a news photographer sighted it in his camera. Detective Fiala was aware of the same phenomenon, but unconcerned with the crowd as such. His eyes sought only one man— the murderer who, through guilt or morbid disposition, might be lurking here.
   No face riveted his attention till Fiala noticed the limousine, with the crowd breaking round it and the Chief of Police, Jose Santiago. He was sitting beside his chauffeur, face bloated and dark, tinted glasses concealing incongruous blue eyes that resembled twin stones and reflected the basic nature of the man.
   Without the uniform he might be the one I’m looking for, Fiala thought, turning away and moving on with the sullen crowd that refused to acknowledge the naked violence of the sun.
   The funeral went off without incident, the police were relieved, Chief Santiago satisfied. His chauffeur returned him to the Municipal Building, the location of police headquarters.
   As he entered his office with Captain Torres, the phone rang. He picked it up, listened, then dismissed Captain Torres with a wave of his hand. Frowning now, he spoke to his caller, Victor Quevedo, mayor of the city and the one who had“made” him. These two were friends of a sort, but the conversation that ensued between them now was strictly business.
   The murder of Rosa Belmonte, with the killer not apprehended, as in both previous murders, had created grave criticism of the police that, in turn, reflected upon Quevedo, exposing him to the machinations of his political enemies. This was the gist of Quevedo’s complaint, along with his sharp demand that Santiago do something and do it fast.
   “Do what?” said Santiago.
   “Get the killer before midnight.”
   Astounded, Santiago hesitated, stuttered inanely, and finally managed to say,“But Victor—”
   Quevedo cut him off sharply.“I am being embarrassed politically and otherwise,” he snapped. “If you wish to continue as Chief of Police, find the killer. Don’t — and you’re finished.”
   Sweating profusely, Santiago dropped the phone and sat back. Slowly with trembling hands he lit a cigarette and dispersed a cloud of smoke. His thoughts were in chaos, dark face swollen to bursting. Slowly the agitation within him receded. Behind his tinted glasses his cold eyes lit up as a face focused in his mind.
   He crushed his cigarette, arose, opened the door, called Captain Torres into the office, and gave him his orders:“Pick up Manuel Domingo for the murder of Rosa Belmonte.”
   Manuel Domingo’s criminal activities were long known to the police — but murder? Captain Torres raised his brows in surprise.
   “Are you sure you have the right man?” he asked.
   “Are you doubting me, or my source of information?” Santiago wanted to know, asserting both the authority of his office and intimating that the phone call he’d received was the “voice” of a reliable informer.
   Captain Torres flushed and retreated to the door. From there he said,“I’ll pick up Manuel Domingo personally.”
   At nine that evening, a black sky threatened the city and the lacy jacarandas stirred to a faint errant wind from the mountains where yellow lightning ignited the empty heavens. Behind the Municipal Building four bars faced the plaza, loud voices broke from each of them.
   Saturday night was just beginning and musicians lolled on the plaza benches, barefoot boys shined shoes, hawked blood-red and dove-white roses on trays of cardboard, like every one else, forgetting Rosa Belmonte.
   It was on this scene that Captain Torres arrived with three of his men after an intensive and fruitless search of all the usual haunts of the criminal Manuel Domingo.
   Captain Torres was convinced that Domingo had fled the city when chance directed his eyes to a bench where two shoeshine boys vied for the privilege of doing the shoes of Detective Fiala.
   Granting them each a shoe, Fiala, who was short and soft-fleshed, with the pallid complexion of a priest, looked up to see the strapping, youthful Captain Torres and his three men confronting him.
   The latter were innocuous fellows, Captain Torres an arrogant whelp, but hardly that now. He needed help and Fiala, whom he despised and who despised him, might provide the information he needed so badly.
   “I am looking for Manuel Domingo,” Torres announced. “Perhaps you happen to know his whereabouts?”
   With a derisive smile, Fiala nodded toward a bar directly across the street.“Manuel Domingo is in there. You’re picking him up?”
   “For the murder of Rosa Belmonte,” Captain Torres replied and turned on his heels.
   Fiala sat where he was. A half minute later Manuel Domingo came through the door of the bar across the street accompanied by Captain Torres and his three men. All five passed through the plaza and entered police headquarters.
   Fiala, who had gone off duty early that day, lit a cigarette and shook his head. No matter what, Manuel Domingo’s fate was sealed, the murder solved. Tomorrow the newspapers would be full of it.
   In disgust, Fiala flicked his cigarette to the gutter and noticed the group of men who’d come from the bar across the street. Anger echoed in their voices; word spread quickly round the plaza: Manuel Domingo had been picked up for the murder of Rosa Belmonte. Manuel Domingo—
   Under the black angry sky a crowd began to converge on police headquarters, but too late to give vent to its feelings, for the brief interrogation of Manuel Domingo was already completed. Guarded by police, he stepped to the sidewalk and was quickly ushered into a waiting car.
   Into a second car stepped Chief of Police Santiago and Captain Torres. With an escort of ten motorcycle policemen, both cars roared off toward the scene of the crime, a spot in the desert several miles from the outskirts of the city.
   The cavalcade soon reached it, the glaring lights of cars and motorcycles focused on a tall yucca beside the road. At its foot Luis Espina, a gatherer of fibre obtained from a small spiny desert plant, had discovered the body of Rosa Belmonte.
   As Manuel Domingo stepped from the car, his face took on a ghastly hue, perhaps because of the lights, perhaps out of fear now that he was at the scene of the crime. Whatever he felt, he said nothing; he appeared dazed.
   A sharp command from Captain Torres sent the policemen into a wide semi-circle, with guns drawn to prevent an attempted escape. That done, Captain Torres walked to the edge of the road with Santiago and Manuel Domingo. There, on orders, he took up position, while the prisoner and Santiago proceeded to the foot of the yucca.
   Once there, Manuel Domingo stopped and stood like a soldier ordered to attention. Headlights impaled him in a glaring cross fire. A sheer wall of black enveloped this luminous area. Now the brief interrogation that Santiago had conducted at headquarters continued. He was seen to gesture; his voice in an unintelligible murmur carried only to Captain Torres.
   Manuel Domingo turned, spoke for the first time since stepping into the car. He was frightened, the terrible black sky threatened, he did not trust Santiago.
   “Get me out of this,” he said, “or else—”
   “Quiet, you fool. This is routine. You’ve been accused.”
   “Who accuses me? Name him.”
   “Shut up and listen.”
   Manuel Domingo came to attention again. His chest heaved, chin lifted, then suddenly he bolted in an attempt to escape. Calmly Santiago fired from the hip.
   Domingo seemed to be running on air, the weight of his body carried him forward, then his legs buckled and he plunged forward to sprawl on the desert floor. Moments later Santiago stood over him and fired another shot as the others closed in.

   The black night enveloped the desolate scene as the cavalcade roared off toward the city. Santiago glanced at the clock on the dashboard and settled back. It was still early, the issue settled. The mayor no longer had reason to be embarrassed.
   As Santiago smiled to himself, Captain Torres turned and said,“Officially, we know now that Manuel Domingo was guilty of murdering Rosa Belmonte, but—”
   “You don’t think he killed the girl?”
   “Do you?”
   “No.”
   “Then why did he run?”
   “I told him we couldn’t protect him from the mob, that if he ran, I’d cover him and let him escape because I knew he was innocent.”
   “But you shot him down.”
   Santiago put a cigarette to his lips.“I had no alternative,” he answered, flicking his lighter, and the cavalcade moved on toward the lights of the city.
   In the early morning the body of the murderer Manuel Domingo, naked but for a white sheet that covered the lower half of his body, lay on a long table beneath a tree in a small plaza near the center of the city for all to see and take warning. Flies came with the heat; the light brought crowds.
   All through the day the people of the city filed past the dead man and at dusk he was taken away, mourned by none.
   Here, the matter would have ended, interred along with Manuel Domingo, but for Detective Fiala who knew one thing beyond doubt: Domingo hadn’t killed the girl. With the murderer still at large, on his own time, Fiala conducted an investigation that quickly proved fruitful. That done, he appeared at the Municipal Building, asked to see Mayor Quevedo and was informed that he was at lunch, dining with several men of importance.
   Obtaining the name of the restaurant, Fiala went there, seated himself at a table next to Quevedo’s party, bowed and, in a voice soft enough to elude the ears of the others, said, “If I may have a word. It’s a matter of grave importance which concerns you.”
   Such was his manner that Quevedo quickly nodded. When he and his companions finished dining, he contrived an excuse for remaining behind and sat down at Fiala’s table.
   “Now,” he said with some anxiety, “what is this matter of importance which concerns me?”
   “I’m afraid it’s much too important to discuss here.”
   “In that case, we’ll go to my office.”
   Fiala nodded and both of them arose and went out the door. A few minutes later they faced each other across Quevedo’s ornate hand-carved desk. Quevedo offered a cigarette. Fiala refused it and presented his case, bluntly informing him that the Chief of Police had murdered Rosa Belmonte.
   “A very serious charge,” Quevedo said, turning pale. “But can you prove it?”
   Fiala nodded and described how he’d gone to see Luis Espina, the fibre-gatherer who’d discovered the body of the dead girl. With a series of tactful questions he’d finally gotten the old man to admit that he’d actually witnessed the murder.
   “If this is true,” Quevedo put in, “why didn’t Espina come forward and say so?”
   “He couldn’t,” Fiala replied, “because at the time of the murder he didn’t recognize Santiago. All he knew was that the killer drove off in a blue and white Cadillac. That was significant. I continued to question him and he produced a vivid description of the driver, but not his identity.That came later when I pressed him.
   “He then admitted that he’d watched the spectacle last night. The lights drew him from his house, and he saw Santiago gun down Manuel Domingo. That’s when he recognized him as the murderer of Rosa Belmonte.”
   Quevedo nodded and said,“The word of a confused old man. His story won’t hold water. Besides Domingo admitted his guilt at the scene of the crime by attempting to escape.”
   “Admitted his guilt?” Fiala smiled and shook his head. “That was the one fact I knew from the beginning, that he wasn’t guilty. You see, Manuel Domingo couldn’t have killed Rosa Belmonte, he wasn’t in the city that day. I know. I trailed him to San Rafael with the expectation of catching him in one of his activities, dealing in marijuana.
   “He remained at a bar in San Rafael till evening, and his contact never appeared. Perhaps he knew I’d trailed him. At any rate, the deal didn’t come off. At nine he headed back to the city. By that time Rosa Belmonte was dead.”
   At this point Quevedo was convinced of the truth of Fiala’s charge, but one thing was unclear. “Why did Santiago pick Domingo for a victim?” he wanted to know.
   Fiala smiled again and clarified the point.“One,” he said, holding up a finger. “Domingo’s reputation was bad; the charge appeared to suit his character. Two: Santiago and Domingo were partners. Domingo controlled the red light district, with the help of Santiago. They quarreled over money. Santiago claimed that Domingo was holding out on him. He probably was, so Santiago found it doubly convenient to eliminate him.”
   Quevedo nodded. It was all clear now, too clear. He frowned and his face paled. If revealed, Santiago’s terrible act would threaten his own position. Frightened, his eyes met Fiala’s.
   The detective had read his thoughts, understood his predicament and said,“Of course, Santiago should be brought to justice, but to arrest him would prove most embarrassing to you.”
   Badly shaken, Quevedo nodded, but he was still alert. Fiala’s statement implied more than it said.
   “What do you suggest?” Quevedo asked.
   Fiala moistened his lower lip with his tongue.“Speak to Santiago,” he answered. “Give him the facts.”
   “And if he denies them?”
   “If he does, tell him he’ll be placed under arrest. After what has taken place—” Here Fiala shrugged. “You can not guarantee his safety from the mob. I think he’ll understand.”
   “Understand what?”
   “Call him and see.”
   Quevedo glanced at the phone and hesitated, giving Fiala the opportunity to rise from his chair.“I’m going for coffee. I’ll be back,” he said and left Quevedo to deliver his terrible message.
   Ten minutes later he returned to the mayor’s office. Quevedo was still troubled. He said nothing. Fiala sat and reached for his cigarettes. At that moment the phone rang. Quevedo picked up the instrument, listened briefly, and placed it back on its cradle.
   “Santiago just shot himself,” he announced.
   Having foreseen this, Fiala merely shrugged and said,“But of course. He had no alternative.”
   At this point, Quevedo saw Fiala in a new light. The fellow was devilishly clever and had saved him from his enemies.“I am in your debt,” he said.
   “Not at all,” replied Fiala.
   “Ah, but I am,” Quevedo insisted. “Besides, I have no Police Chief now. Would you consider the office?”
   Fiala grinned and, to the consternation of Quevedo, shook his head.
   “But why not?” said Quevedo. “I don’t understand. Think of what it means to be Chief of Police.”
   “In this city,” Fiala replied, “it means to have much power, and power corrupts.”
   “It would corrupt you?” Quevedo asked.
   “I am of flesh and blood. Perhaps it might, but I doubt it.”
   “Then why refuse?”
   “Because the job doesn’t interest me. It’s as simple as that,” Fiala answered and rose from his chair to light a cigarette. With that, he walked to the door.
   Still puzzled, Quevedo watched him, then said,“But you must want something. What do I owe you?”
   His hand on the doorknob, Fiala turned.“Nothing,” he answered. “Just be more careful when you pick the new Chief of Police.”
   Man on the Run
   by Dennis Lynds
   Detective Lieutenant Frederick Jacoby lighted a cigarette and watched the white-uniformed attendants carry the body from the dingy hotel room. Then Jacoby looked to where the coroner was still working on the other man. The second man had a bullet in his chest and had a hard time breathing or talking. Jacoby had just finished listening to the man.
   “He almost made it out the door,” Detective Sergeant Allers said to Jacoby.
   “He almost made it all the way to Rio,” Jacoby said.
   “I still don’t get it all, Fred,” Allers said. “I mean, how come Maxie came back to New York anyway. He should of known he’d get it here.”
   “He had a plan,” Jacoby said. “A smart man, Little Maxie. The careful type, never worked without a plan.”
   Allers looked puzzled.“This was a plan? Some plan!”
   “A hot tip, Sergeant, real inside information. Maxie probably paid plenty to check it out. The only trouble was he didn’t get the whole picture, you know?”
   Jacoby had the wounded man’s story, and the Lieutenant could imagine the rest without much trouble. Jacoby smoked his cigarette and thought about Little Maxie and his hot tip.

   Little Maxie Lima had been on the run for three months when he decided to work on Walter Midge. That was something new for Maxie, being on the run. It was usually the other way around. Since he had killed his first man with an icepick when he was sixteen, it had been the other men who ran while Maxie chased. Maxie got one hundred dollars for that first killing— a man had wanted his wife out of the way and Maxie went into business.
   Since then his methods had improved and so had his pay. Maxie could kill you any way you could think of, and do it expertly, quietly, without a trace of evidence.
   That kind of talent does not go to waste. Little Maxie was twenty when he filled his first contract for the Syndicate. The trouble was that Maxie liked his work too much. He filled private contracts on the side, the cops came down on him hard, and the Syndicate decided that Little Maxie Lima was no longer a safe property to have around. They put out a contract on Little Maxie himself, and Maxie started to run.
   It was new to Little Maxie, running. Not from the cops, he was used to having the cops after him. There were a lot of places to run and hide from the cops. But there was nowhere for Little Maxie Lima to hide from a contract. So he ran.
   He was a careful man, Maxie. He had some money put away in selected locations. That gave him the price of three months running. But Little Maxie would not have taken a lead nickel for his chances. He was a practical man, a realist, and he knew how much chance a man had when there was a contract out on him. No chance at all. Unless he could get far out of the country with enough money to hole up in some quiet place where the local police could be bought. And that was when Little Maxie Lima thought of Walter Midge.
   There were only five ways Maxie knew to get money, the kind of money he would need to go far enough and be safe enough: killing, stealing, borrowing, gambling, and blackmail. No one would hire him to kill a fly now, and the small-time stealing he could do safely on the run would not get him to Brooklyn from Manhattan. He had no stake for gambling, and if he had ever had any friends, he didn’t have any now, so borrowing was out. That left blackmail.
   The little killer was in Los Angeles at the time he thought about Walter Midge. In his room he actually smiled. Next to murder Maxie liked blackmail the best, especially the blackmailing of a fellow crook. There was more risk, more brains were needed, when you blackmailed a fellow criminal, and that gave Little Maxie a lot of pleasure. Outsmarting them was almost as much pleasure as killing them.
   In that Los Angeles hotel room Maxie started to work on outsmarting all of them: Syndicate, cops, and Walter Midge. He rolled a cigarette of cheap pipe tobacco in a strip of torn newspaper and began to think.
   There was a risk in going back to New York. Maxie had to weigh that against the safety of, say, $20,000 and a ticket to Brazil. That was the first step for any good businessman— weigh the gain against the risk. Maxie was a good businessman and this time there was no question. Without money they would get him within two weeks — the cops would if the Syndicate didn’t. But Maxie had to be sure Walter Midge was his man.
   All he had was one piece of information— inside information. A very hush-hush rumor said that big, dumb Walter Midge, a hanger-on at Big Frank Arcarti’s crap game in New York, had driven the get-away car of the big Newark armored car robbery four months ago. Only a rumor, but Walter Midge was just the kind of man Little Maxie himself would have used to drive a get-away car.
   But Maxie was the careful type; he wanted to check it out. The only man the little killer could think of who would know and who might still talk to him was Manny Gomez in Chicago. Maxie put his .38 in his pocket and headed for the airport.

   Manny Gomez seemed glad to see Little Maxie. But not glad enough to forget that talk is cheap and information costs money. Manny smiled, but it cost Little Maxie a twenty-dollar bill.
   “Yeh,” Manny said as he checked the twenty to be sure it was good, “I heard about Walter. I tell you, Maxie, it’s a hard one to figure. Word says he drove the car. He spilled to a broad, told her all about how he worked on a big job, told her what a great driver he was. She told some peopleWalter said stick with him and she’d be big. He’s spending, but not spending much. Not real loud, you know, but more then he ever had. He moved to a better pad. He gets his suits pressed now, and he walks big.”
   “A dame?” Little Maxie said. “Walter never had a real dame in his life. They laughed at him.”
   “One ain’t laughing,” Manny said.
   “Maybe she just likes him,” Maxie said. “What kind of dame?”
   “Not cheap, not high-price, you know?”
   “The cops?” Maxie said.
   “I heard they talked to him, but I ain’t sure. If he didn’t talk himself, I wouldn’t know nothing,” Manny said.
   “Walter always did have a big mouth,” Little Maxie said. “Okay, Manny, and thanks.”
   “What’s a pal for?” Manny said.
   Back in his Chicago hotel room Little Maxie thought it all over. It was still only a tip, hot information, but it fitted, it made sense. Walter was just the kind of bum for a job like that. Walter was the kind who would spill to a dame, and Walter had money now. It was logical. Little Maxie liked logic. He was going over it again when he heard the noise.
   A noise like a button hitting metal. Outside the window on the fire escape. Maxie held his breath, then took out his .38 and flipped off the safety. He glided like a ghost across the room to the window. Flattened against the wall beside the window, Maxie waited. He did not have to wait long.
   The man was in the room almost before Maxie realized that the window had been opened. Little Maxie admired professional work; the man moved almost as silently as Maxie himself. The man was good, but not quite good enough.
   Little Maxie hit the man expertly behind the ear, and the man went down and out. Maxie thought about his“pal” Manny Gomez.
   Maxie checked the fire escape. It was empty. Maxie dragged the man into the light. A stranger. It was always a stranger. He searched the man. Not a cop. Maxie sat back in a chair and waited for the visitor to revive. He rolled another of his newspaper cigarettes and smoked until the man groaned, rolled over, and started to get up. Little Maxie waved his .38.
   “Stay down, friend. Against the wall, hands flat on the floor. Right. Now don’t move and maybe you’ll live.”
   “You won’t, little man,” the man said.
   “Maybe, maybe not,” Maxie said. “You’re pretty good, but the fire escape was a dumb play. You get this close to a mark, you got no business blowing the play. How come you tried a dumb move, friend?”
   “We all ain’t as good as you, Maxie,” the man said.
   “You got a point, friend, only you ain’t that bad either, right? Now the way I figure it is you tailed me to Manny Gomez. When you talked to my pal Manny, you figured I was working some angle and maybe I’d get away, right?”
   “If you’re gonna shoot, shoot,” the man said.
   “No hurry,” Little Maxie said. “Yeh, that’s it. You know something and you figured you had to move in fast. I got brains, friend, that’s the score. I ain’t perfect. Manny talked, right?”
   “About what, little man?”
   “Walter Midge, friend, and my ticket out.”
   The man on the floor sneered.“Midge? That loony? How’s Midge gonna get you out? That two-bit bum ain’t even any good on the door of a crap game.”
   “I hear he ain’t on the door no more, I hear he’s in the game now,” Maxie said softly.
   The man on the floor showed no reaction, maybe a faint blink of the eyes, but Maxie did not expect to see a reaction. The man said,“You hear too much. So Midge ain’t on the door no more, so he rolled some drunks and came up with a few bills.”
   Maxie hadn’t been sure Walter Midge wasn’t on the door of Big Frank’s game any more, now he was sure. And the man on the floor had made a dumb move because they were worried. That meant they knew about Walter, too. If Walter was still alive. You had to figure all the angles, weigh the facts. They knew about Walter, but only this guy knew that he, Maxie, knew about Walter. This guy and his partner, he had to have a partner. The partner would be watching the front.
   Maxie said,“So Walter’s a loony, eh? He never had any money, he never worked a big job, that’s your story, friend! You never heard of the big job, you don’t know nothing?”
   The man laughed.“Walter? A big job? You must be off your rocker, little man.”
   “It figures you’d con me, friend, it figures. Only you can’t, see? You ain’t got the brains.”
   “You’re runnin’ scared, little man,” the man said. “Go ahead, run! Shoot me, and run, see how far you get.”
   “Shoot? You must really think I’m dumb,” Maxie said. “Where’s your partner, out front?”
   The man raised his hands and lunged to his feet. Little Maxie brought his hand from his pocket, his left hand, the one that was holding his knife, not his gun. The man gasped once and fell.
   Little Maxie moved swiftly. He hauled the man’s body to the window and pushed the man out. Then he turned and ran from the room and down the stairs to the lobby. As he expected, the lobby was empty, the last few people were running into the street.
   Maxie slid out and walked silently in the shadow of the building to the edge of the crowd.
   A cop was bending over the body of the man Maxie had killed. Little Maxie searched the faces in the crowd. He spotted his man. He could not be certain, but the man was trying to get close and yet not too close.
   Maxie walked close up to the man. He touched the man’s coat under the left arm. The man whirled, his right hand inside his coat. The man saw Maxie and his hand came out and there was a gun in it.
   Maxie smiled and stabbed the man expertly. The man slumped into Maxie’s arms. No one in the crowd had seen any of it. Little Maxie staggered away with the man until he reached an alley. Then he dropped the man and ran.

   No one saw him arrive in New York. There had been no one waiting at La Guardia. But it was only a matter of time. The moment he checked into the flea-bitten West Side hotel it was even money the cops would know he was in town within three hours, the Syndicate maybe an hour earlier. They would find him tomorrow at the latest.
   Maxie figured he had maybe fifteen hours if he changed hotels every five hours and never stayed in the same place more than two hours. That was the way it was; Maxie liked to face facts. He had to move fast. Fast and careful. You had to balance them just right to beat the Syndicate and the cops.
   His first stop was Eddie the Wasp’s cigar store. The fat stool pigeon took one look at Maxie and began to sweat. “They’ll kill me for even talking to you! They got the word about Chi.”
   “Walter Midge, Eddie,” Maxie said. “The cops after him?”
   The fat man sweated in rivers in the cold.“They rousted him two months ago. I don’t know why. I put out an ear but I got no message. Three days they had him inside. Gimme a break, Maxie, that’s all I heard.”
   For Little Maxie it was enough, it all fitted now.“Where is Walter?”
   “Who knows? He’s been playin’ in Big Frank’s game, you know? And he moved like. Maxie, what’d he do? I mean, once in a while he talks about a big job, how he’s in the know. He’s spendin’, you know?”
   “The cops don’t know, how should I know?”
   “Cops’re dumb,” Eddie said.
   “So dumb they got to use a stoolie as stupid as you,” Maxie said. “Okay, now you get a message to Walter. You tell him Little Maxie wants to see him about a big job, a driving job, got that? You tell him it’s me and a big job. And, Eddie, if anyone except Walter knows I’m in town I’ll be back for you.”
   “Sure, Maxie,” the fat stoolie said.
   “Okay. You get Walter here, and you get him to call me and ask for Alice, just Alice. That’s all.”
   Little Maxie gave Eddie a Chelsea number, and turned on his heel and walked out. He did not have to worry about Eddie yet. Later, when Eddie thought he was safe, but not yet.
   Maxie walked across the city to the Sixth Avenue bar that had the number, the Chelsea number, he’d given Eddie. He waited back in a dark doorway across the street until he was sure Eddie had called no one else. Then he crossed the street and went into the bar.
   There were two men in the bar, and the bartender. Maxie covered his face as he passed the two men. He ordered a beer. A clock above the bar read ten o’clock. The little killer figured he had maybe ten hours left. He began to smile to himself. He was going to make it. With a break. He was on his third beer when he noticed that there was only one man sitting at the bar now.
   Little Maxie jumped up and headed for the door. The telephone rang. Maxie hesitated, he did not know how long the man at the bar had been gone. It was a chance he would have to take. If he missed Walter this time it would take hours to make another contact, and Maxie did not have many hours. He went for the telephone.
   A deep voice said,“Alice?”
   “Okay, Midge, meet me in the alley behind the Belden Hotel in a half an hour. Come alone, I’ll be watching.”
   The voice seemed to hesitate. Then the voice said,“Is this Maxie Lima? The hired gun?”
   “Yeh, Midge, so be quick. It’s a big job.”
   Little Maxie hung up and ran for the door. He was a half a block away when he looked back and saw the car drive up to the tavern. Two men got out and went into the saloon. In the distance Maxie heard sirens coming closer. The man from the bar had called everyone. Little Maxie walked faster and smiled in the night. His luck was holding.
   He waited in the dark of the alley for Walter Midge. From where he stood he could see the mouth of the alley lighted by a street lamp. There was a blank wall behind him. The doors into the alley were all unlocked; Maxie had checked that. He had his escape route, and no one could sneak up on him. He lighted a cigarette as he waited, sure he had checked everything as usual.
   The big man appeared at the mouth of the alley. Midge was almost a giant, and as broad as a wrestler. Little Maxie watched Midge walk down the alley. The big man seemed to move slowly as if afraid of something, hesitant. Little Maxie stepped out and shined a quick light on the big man.
   “That’s far enough, Walter.”
   Midge stopped. The big man’s eyes blinked in the light There was a thick cigar clamped in Midge’s mouth. The big man’s suit was good and pressed. His shoes were shined. Midge looked prosperous enough. Maxie shut off the light.
   “You said you got a job,” the big man said in the dark.
   Maxie stepped close to the big man.“A driving job, Midge. A bank, you drive the get-away car. You can handle that kind of job, right?”
   The big man seemed to hesitate again. Then his voice from the dark said,“Maybe I can, maybe I can’t.”
   The tone of the voice had changed, become, suddenly, arrogant. Midge’s voice was arrogant and wary, the voice of a man who is not sure how much he should admit, but who didn’t care if someone guessed what he had done. Midge was saying, “Maybe I can, maybe I can’t.”
   “I know all about it, Walter,” Maxie said.
   “All about what, Lima,” the hard voice said.
   Maxie laughed.“Don’t try to con me, Midge. The robbery, I know all about it. What was your cut, ten percent? That’d be one hundred grand more-or-less, right? You ain’t been spending that much, you been taking it real easy. I figure you got most of it left.”
   The big man’s voice was harder, cagy. “You got big ears, maybe you know too much.”
   Little Maxie said,“Don’t try it, Midge! I got a gun in my hand, and a knife in my pocket. You know who I am. I could kill you ways you never heard of, and no one the wiser.”
   “What do you want from me?” Walter Midge said.
   Little Maxie smiled to himself.“Let’s say you got seventy-five grand left, I’ll take about twenty thousand bucks of that. I’m being good to you, that’s less than half.”
   “Why should I pay you?”
   “Because I know about the robbery. I figure it’s worth ten thousand dollars I don’t tell the cops; they’d listen to Maxie Lima, believe me. You fooled them once, only this time they’d have the tip from me, and this time they’d keep you inside until you rotted.”
   Maxie went on:“The other ten grand is for not telling the Syndicate boys. You don’t pay, I tell the cops and the Syndicate boys. If the cops don’t lock you up and throw away the key, someone in the Syndicate is gonna get the idea of helping you spend that dough, right?”
   There was a long silence this time. Little Maxie took a tight grip on his .38 and waited. At last the voice of Walter Midge said,“You’ll tell them? The cops and the Syndicate?”
   “I will,” Maxie said. “And don’t think about knocking me off. In the first place you couldn’t do it, in the second place that’s a murder rap and twenty grand ain’t worth a murder rap to a guy like you.”
   The silence was longer this time. The little killer went over the whole thing in his mind. The kind of man who drove a get-away car for ten percent of a big robbery was not the type who would kill anyone if he could help it. Maxie knew all about killers, and robbery drivers were never killers if they could help it.
   Little Maxie was sure of that. It wouldn’t do the big man any good to turn him in to the police. And the big man was too dumb to know that Little Maxie wasn’t about to talk to the Syndicate. If Midge knew that, the big man would have walked out already.
   The big man’s voice said, “You’ll tell the Syndicate?”
   “You heard me,” Maxie said. “Here’s what you do. Bring the money to the Valencia Hotel, you know where it is. Ask for Mr. Brown’s room. Then you go straight up and wait at the room door, got it?”
   The big man did not answer. Little Maxie was sure Midge was shaking his head up and down in the dark, but the big man did not speak, and then Maxie saw a shadow at the mouth of the alley. Maxie hissed,“Run!”
   A voice called,“Halt! Police!”
   Maxie was down and crawling away before the first shot was fired. The little killer never did see what happened to Walter Midge. Maxie knew the voice— Lieutenant Jacoby.
   Maxie swore under his breath. The only way Jacoby could have known was from Eddie the Wasp. Eddie must have heard him on the telephone to Walter. He decided he would take care of Eddie after Walter paid the money.
   There was movement at the mouth of the alley. Little Maxie fired four quick shots and made a dash for the nearest door. He went through the door in a sprawling dive, landed, rolled, and came up running. One last shot missed him by a hair as he went down a laundry chute in the hotel head first. He came out in the cellar and was out the front way and running away in the dark before the police reached the cellar.

   From the shadows Little Maxie watched Midge cross the street and go into the entrance of the Valencia Hotel. The big man was carrying a brown-paper wrapped package. The little killer waited in the shadows. Light was just beginning to break in the sky to the east.
   Dawn soon, and Maxie had already checked on the nine o’clock flight nonstop to Brazil. They had a seat. Now he waited across the street to see if Walter Midge had decided to try to be smart.
   Fifteen minutes passed, but no one else went into the hotel, no one drove up and parked on the block.
   Midge was playing it straight. Maxie knew Walter himself was no danger, but it paid to be sure, and Maxie checked his .38 before he put it in his pocket with his hand on it and ready. Then he walked across the street and into the hotel. He had played it all as smart as it could be played; now his luck just had to hold another three hours.
   In the hotel he walked up the stairs. Walter Midge was waiting in front of the door of the room he had taken in the name of Brown. Maxie walked up to the big man and pulled out his .38.“Hold still!”
   He carefully searched the big man. Midge was not carrying a weapon. Maxie had been sure, but it paid to figure on everything. Maxie said,“Okay, come on.”
   “Where?” Walter Midge said.
   “Just come on,” Maxie said. He led the big man down the stairs to the next floor. He took a key from his pocket and opened the door of an empty room.
   Maxie grinned.“In case you told anyone. I got the key and checked the room being empty while the clerk was off buying me some whisky, for a small tip, of course.”
   The big man walked into the room and Little Maxie locked the door behind them. Maxie still held his .38, just in case, but he was not worried about the big man. And he had decided not to kill Midge later. Sudden killings were dangerous, too much could go wrong. A shot in the hotel was too risky— too many people. With a man as big as Midge a knife was chancy.
   The main thing was that Little Maxie did not want a killing to start the police checking the airports. Eddie the Wasp would have told them Maxie was looking for Walter Midge by now.
   “Okay, Midge,” he said, “hand it over and I’ll blow.”
   The big man handed Maxie the package. Maxie laid his .38 on the bureau and tore open the package. And Maxie stared down at the neatly stacked and wrapped piles of cut newspaper. Not all newspaper. On each stack there was a single ten dollar bill. Little Maxie screamed at Walter Midge:
   “Newspaper?! Why you stupid—”
   The big man moved with amazing speed. Midge was half way to Maxie before the little man knew what was happening. The big man shouted,“You ain’t gonna tell! You ain’t—”
   Little Maxie grabbed for his .38. His mind was racing. The shots would bring the cops if the big man’s shouts didn’t. It was crazy, stupid!
   The big man came closer. Maxie fired before his gun was steady. The big man grunted. But Midge did not stop coming. Little Maxie panicked. It was all wrong! It was stupid! Maxie ducked and ran. It made no sense, and the little killer reached for the door in panic.
   The big man’s hands closed on his throat. The .38 fell to the floor. Little Maxie tried to breathe, but the fingers crushed his throat. Maxie heard shouts and running feet in the hall. He tried to scream, but his throat was twisted and nothing came out.
   Blood rushed up behind Maxie’s eyes and his mind screamed over and over— it don’t figure, it’s stupid, it don’t figure, it don’t...
   And Little Maxie Lima died trying to think of what had gone wrong.

   Detective Lieutenant Fred Jacoby looked down at Walter Midge. The big man was breathing hard with the bullet in his chest. Jacoby said to the Sergeant,“So Maxie put his gun down and when Midge rushed him he couldn’t get it up fast enough. It looks like he panicked. He couldn’t figure what went wrong.”
   “Midge was lucky,” Sergeant Allers said. “He gonna make it?”
   “Maybe,” Jacoby said. “I don’t figure he cares.”
   The coroner, who was working over the injured Walter Midge, looked up at Jacoby.“He’s got a chance.”
   “That newspaper trick was smart, but risky,” the Sergeant said. “Me, I’d of given Maxie the money.”
   “What money?” Jacoby said. “Walter never went near a big robbery in his life. You’re as bad as Maxie. The newspaper wasn’t a smart trick; Walter really thought it was twenty thousand dollars. That’s why the tens on every stack. You heard him tell us what happened? He still thinks he wasin on the robbery, drove the car, and brought the money to Maxie. It’s a delusion, he wants to believe it. The only thing he doesn’t know is why he killed Maxie. If he had really been in on the robbery, he would have paid Maxie, not killed him.”
   The coroner stood up. He looked down at Walter Midge.“He had to kill Maxie or face up to his delusion. If he let Maxie tell anyone about the robbery, the part of his brain with the delusion would have to admit it was only a delusion. So his subconscious killed Maxie to protect its delusion, so it could go on believing what it wanted. I’ll bet Maxie still can’t figure it out wherever he is.”
   Jacoby said,“Maxie should have asked me. We checked Walter two months ago. We’d heard the same rumors. It turned out he inherited some money — he’d rolled some drunks when it was real safe. The big criminal, just a delusion. Poor Little Maxie.”
   “You mean he killed Maxie because hedidn’t do the robbery?” the Sergeant said. “It’s crazy.”
   “A crazy delusion,” Jacoby said. “He had to protect his delusion. He still doesn’t know why he killed Maxie. He knew Maxie had nothing to tell but his mind couldn’t admit that.”
   The coroner put on his hat and coat as the stretcher arrived from the ambulance. As they went out behind the stretcher with big Walter Midge on it, the coroner said,“If he lives, it’s Bellevue. He can still think he’s a big man there.”
   “You know,” Jacoby said, “he did the job on Maxie for the Syndicate. Maybe they will even pay him.”
   On the stretcher Walter Midge struggled to raise his head. The big man gasped out,“Yeh, I done the job, copper. I got Little Maxie Lima, I’m a big man, copper.”
   “How’d you do it, Walter,” Jacoby said, “with his own thirty-eight I’ll bet.”
   Walter Midge lay back on the stretcher. Then the big man smiled like a child.“Yeh, that’s right, I done it with his own gun.” The big man smiled like a happy child, and then, suddenly, the big man scowled and his eyes narrowed as he stared up at nothing. “Maybe I did it, maybe I didn’t, copper. You get me my lawyer. Yeh, that’s it, my lawyer. I ain’t talking.”
   Lieutenant Jacoby closed the ambulance door behind Walter Midge and watched the ambulance drive away in the cold morning. A jet flew over the city high up. On its way to Brazil maybe, Jacoby thought to himself. Poor Little Maxie.
   Death, My Love
   by John Douglas
   Killing Marion was going to be, in a way, the best part of it, John S. Johns thought as he pointed the pistol at his secretary and mistress. The icing on the cake, the final touch that would bring him safe, alone, and rich to the life he wanted.
   “John! Don’t point that at me, please,” Marion said.
   “I’m sorry, Marion,” John S. Johns said. “I really am.”
   In a way hewas sorry. She had a fine body, she knew what to do with it, and he supposed she did love him in her smothering, clinging way. But he was going to be free of his wife, his stupid children, his job, and of Marion and her tedious love. That was the way he had planned it from the start. A clean sweep, the past dead with no loose ends, no excess baggage.
   One man could hope to vanish, but a man and a woman had to leave a trail. And he would have to watch her every minute. John S. Johns was not going to risk the universal mistake of taking a woman who could turn against him any minute, who had a hold on him the rest of his life. A new life, that was what it was all for. A new life with a half a million dollars in his pocket.
   Marion’s blue eyes were wide with a mixture of fear and disbelief. “Please, John, don’t play games with me — not now.”
   John S. Johns sighed.“It’s not a game, I’m afraid, Marion. I’m tired of you. I’m sorry but it’s that simple. You’re just too dull, my dear. I could just leave you, but you know too much about my plans.”
   Now there was only terror in the blue eyes.“I helped you! Without me you couldn’t have done any of it! John, please, please!”
   “No, I couldn’t,” he said. “You did help me, and I’m truly grateful. Look at it this way, Marion. You’re proving your love, you’re going to die for me.” And John S. Johns smiled at his secretary and mistress as he squeezed the trigger.
   The sound of the aircraft’s engines covered the shots. He had counted on that. In the dark night no one had even noticed Marion and himself standing in the shadows near the edge of the field.
   John S. Johns made sure she was dead, then he picked up the two suitcases and ran toward the waiting aircraft. One more step and it was finished. It was a drastic solution. But, then, he had counted on her unquestioning help, her complete trust to the end, and her own folly had betrayed her.
   Johns was a student of human nature, and it was his discernment in that respect which had made his whole plan possible. She had been too devoted, too trusting, and had provided an irresistible temptation that a man like himself could hardly be blamed for succumbing to.

   Johns had begun to work out his plan three months ago. After twenty-two years in the office of Jamesville’s leading bank, he had worked up to be first vice-president in the main office at the munificent salary of $15,227.70 a year. The odd seventy cents was a courtesy of IBM, the exact percentage of his worth having been calculated by machine.
   Everything in the bank was done by machine, for old man Moss, the president, trusted no human being. So John S. Johns received his salary (less than $1000 for each endless year he had worked in the same bank), lived moderately well, owned his own home, belonged to the second-best Country Club, sent his three children through college, and was bored beyond belief.
   That was where Marion Astor came in, and, three months ago, the plan.
   Marion had been his mistress for five years. At first she had made life very much more interesting for him. And then it changed, and he found that what he had was not a daring and illegal mistress, but only another wife. Marion became a second wife as domestic and boring as his real wife, Maude. Younger, blonder, stupider, but just another Maude after all.
   Marion was as faithful as any wife, as unimaginative, as little a challenge. Marion liked to stay home and cook him dinners. She hated going out, and she understood him. An illegal wife, no more, and Johns did not want to be understood. He did not want a cozy second home. He wanted to be dazzled, challenged, and tempted.
   There were times when Johns thought of himself as another Gauguin. Like Gauguin he had a good business, a good wife, children, and a position in the community. And like Gauguin he felt he was worth more than that.
   He wanted to be free. He realized, at last, that no woman, no place, could thrill him for very long. To truly live he had to be free. But unlike Gauguin it was not a desire to paint that drove him on. It was simply a desire to live well and with adventure. And to do that he needed a great deal of money.
   The obvious answer was his bank. There were two problems: to steal the money and to get away without being caught. To steal the money would require a careful plan if he was not to be caught before he even left the bank. And to get away with it would require an even better plan.
   So John S. Johns began to study the people around him. He had always been a student of human nature, and it had helped him establish a record of never making a bad loan at the bank. The first thing he decided was that his wife, Maude, could be counted on not to care where he was if he timed the move to coincide with one of her Girl Scout or PTA weekends. His children would not even be aware that he had gone away for a long period.
   Marion would do anything he asked as long as he took her with him to live in some cottage with his pipe and slippers in her hand. Only his golf cronies, and his other bachelor friends would miss him unless— he was sent out of town on business.
   His plan had already begun to take shape when he turned his attention to the bank. Old Moss, the president, was a man of remarkably suspicious nature who could be counted on to jump instantly to an obvious conclusion if he remotely suspected a man of dishonesty. It would make no difference how long Moss had known the man. In fact the longer the president had known a man, the more he would be inclined to suspect that he was capable of committing any crime, from arson to murder.
   The executive vice-president, Joseph Sackville, was John S. Johns’ immediate superior. And Sackville was a business snob. The one important thing in Sackville’s life was his position at the bank. The executive vice-president considered himself a partner and not an employee of old man Moss. What Moss did, Sackville would want to do. The executive vice-president could be counted on to reject any task that Moss would reject.
   Finally, the only other man with full access to the vault, Head Teller Meade Lewis, was a wizened bachelor who still dreamed of being a woman chaser. That Lewis had never had any success with women only seemed to make the man more of a Casanova.
   There was not a female in the bank under forty who had not been asked to go out by Meade Lewis. Marion was no exception, and John S. Johns began his plan with Marion and Meade Lewis.
   As he had expected, Marion made only a faint protest when he outlined what he had in mind.
   “But John, I don’t know if it’s right.”
   “If you mean is it criminal, yes it is,” he said, “but it is right. It’s right for us, darling. I can’t take living this way much longer. A man and woman in love should not have to resort to deception. We’ll go to some quiet place, take a small house, and live for each other. If there was any justice, such happiness would not be denied us.”
   “But why the money, John?”
   “I won’t lie to you, darling. We couldn’t remain free to live our own lives for a week without a lot of money. They’d track me down, call me a wife-deserter. With money I can pay our way, pay off detectives if I have to. It will be like a real honeymoon, darling.”
   “A honeymoon? Oh, John, that’s all I want.”
   “You hate all this hiding as much as I do,” he said.
   “I do, dear, I hate it,” Marion said. “All right, for us.”
   “It won’t take long, darling,” he said, and he explained his plan. He did not, of course, tell Marion of the two major problems he knew he would have to solve.
   The complete escape that would mean the end of John S. Johns, and how not to have to take her with him. She would do what he asked only as long as she thought it meant the two of them and domestic bliss forever. He intended to solve that problem. But he did not tell her that. What he told her was that she would have to convince Meade Lewis to go away with her for a long weekend in New York.
   “That won’t be hard,” he said. “Let him take you out, a few kisses in the dark. Maybe a little more, you understand? Not all the way. We’ll save that for New York. It will make him very eager to go. He has to be eager enough to take Saturday morning off.”
   “I don’t know that I can do it, John,” Marion said.
   “Try hard, dear.”
   Meade Lewis fell for the bait as eagerly as expected, and within two weeks Lewis was calling Marion every day. A month before the weekend he had selected, Johns made a side trip to Mobile while he was in St. Louis on bank business. He took a flight on a small, unscheduled airline to Vera Cruz, Mexico. He noted every detail of the flight, especially that the plane crossed the Mexican coast from the Gulf exactly twenty minutes before landing at Vera Cruz.
   Satisfied, he booked on the flight for the future and returned to St. Louis. In St. Louis he bought a thirty-eight calibre pistol and a small chest parachute. He bought a souvenir cushion cover of St. Louis, and a special electronic device that induced a heavy impulse in wires by remote control. The electronic device cost him a lot of money, but it was the most important part of his plan. It would set off the bank alarm. The cushion cover was to hide the parachute.
   He chose the last weekend in July. The bank would be full of payroll money. The children would be away. Maude would be on her three-day Girl Scout week-end in the woods. He gave Marion her final instructions.
   “Leave the bank as usual at four-thirty P.M. on Friday,” he said. “I’m giving you Saturday morning off to go to Lake George, a long weekend. That won’t surprise old Moss, because he knows I’m against our still being open on Saturday mornings. You’ll catch the five o’clock train to New York. You’d better take only one suitcase, for you’ll have to carry a small one of mine.”
   And he smiled to himself. Marion would carry the parachute hidden in its cushion cover. Ironic, since it would play a role in his escape from her. But it was an added precaution in case anyone looked in his bags.
   “In New York check into the Commander under an assumed name. Tell Lewis to take the six-thirty train; you’ll be waiting at the station. He has to take the six-thirty or he’ll miss you. That’s important. Take him to some hotel, not the Commander, and stay with him until Saturday night.
   “Keep him indoors as much as possible, and make sure he’ll wait in the room Saturday night when you leave for Idlewild. Some sleeping pills perhaps. At Idlewild take the jet for New Orleans. Go straight to a small airport in Mobile, Alabama — I’ll write it down for you. I’ll be there waiting.”
   “Stay with him overnight? Oh, John.”
   “I know it; it torments me too, darling,” he said. “But you’ll have to keep him with you, because he mustn’t come back here or even call.”
   He had already checked his remote control device on the bank alarm. It worked perfectly, and it would be no problem to explain to the outraged police that he had opened the door after the alarm was set— a simple oversight. It was all in order.
   That Friday morning John S. Johns went into the vault and gathered $500,000 in unlisted bills and placed them in a safe part of the vault. It was his job to supervise the making up of the payrolls for Monday. Payroll lists had the serial numbers noted down, and he carefully falsified enough lists to make the $500,000.
   Marion went home on schedule, and at precisely half past four John S. Johns went into the vault and removed a series of bills in various denominations from a listed payroll. There were only four people left in the bank at five o’clock. Old man Moss and Sackville were in their offices behind closed doors.
   Meade Lewis was working over his final tally when John S. Johns walked up to him. The head teller’s coat hung in its usual place, for Lewis was old-fashioned and wore a blue bank jacket when he worked.
   “Meade,” Johns said. He was pleased when Lewis almost jumped out of his skin. Quite obviously the head teller had heard rumors of Johns and Marion, and had jumped out of guilt.
   “Sorry to bother you,” Johns said, “But I seem to be off on my count on the Augustino payroll. Would you check me?”
   Lewis looked at the clock nervously.“Well, I do have to leave soon, John. I’ve got tomorrow off you know. I’m going to visit my brother in Chicago.”
   John S. Johns wanted to laugh. It was the story he had told Marion to have Lewis tell everyone. The plan was as smooth as silk. He said,“I’ll finish the tally for you, how’s that?”
   “Okay, John,” Lewis said. “That’s fair enough.”
   The moment Lewis entered the vault, Johns quickly took the wallet from the head teller’s coat and replaced all the money with bills from the Augustino payroll. He could be sure now that Lewis’ fingerprints would be on the vault where the Augustino payroll was. He had wiped his own clean already. By the time Lewis returned and said the payroll checked fine, he had completed the tally and was back at his own desk.
   At exactly five-thirty old Moss walked from his office to the vault. Sackville was with him as usual. The president said,“Lewis, Johns, check the vault.”
   The old man watched them like a hawk as they checked the money in the vault. It was, of course, all there. The president grunted and waved them out of the vault as he stepped to the time-lock mechanism. The old man set the lock for the next morning, Sackville standing beside him. Johns pressed the remote control in his pocket. The alarm went off with a startling clangor.
   The president leapt back and turned away from the vault with a startled exclamation.
   Sackville turned with Moss.“What the devil! That damned alarm company is a gyp outfit!” he muttered angrily. “This has happened before—”
   Lewis stared toward the alarm. The president and the executive vice-president started to walk toward the door. The alarm rang on.
   Johns stepped to the time lock and changed it to open in two hours. Then he called out,“Sir! The vault!”
   “What?” The old man turned. “Very good, Johns. You can close it now. It’s set. Sackville’s right. I’m going to call that alarm company and tell them what I think of them!”
   With a smile to himself, Johns closed the vault door. There was no more to do now but wait.
   The alarm people came and went. Meade Lewis left for his train, after explaining to Moss again that he was going to visit his brother in Chicago. Johns told Moss and Sackville that he was leaving, and mentioned also that with his wife away he would have to eat at the Club.
   Moss and Sackville went into their offices to clean up the last of their work. Johns walked to the door, opened it, closed it loudly, and crouched in a dark part of the bank under a desk.
   Moss and Sackville left side by side after setting the door alarm. Johns waited another ten minutes. Then he walked to the vault and waited until he heard the time lock open. When he had the $500,000, plus the Augustino payroll, in his briefcase, he reset the time lock for the correct time in the morning. At the door he disconnected the alarm, opened the door, reset the alarm, and left.
   He went straight home, packed the money in his large suitcase under the false bottom, and put the case back into his closet. Then he drove to Meade Lewis’ apartment and packed all of Lewis’ clothes into suitcases. He drove to the river and threw the suitcases into the water. Then he went to the Club for a quiet dinner. He made sure everyone saw him. After dinner he went home and slept peacefully.
   In the morning he arrived at the bank at his usual hour, a half an hour before the vault would open. It was Sackville who ran shouting from the vault. The police arrived in two minutes led by Adam Bone, the Chief of Police. By then old man Moss had jumped to his conclusion exactly as Johns had hoped he would.
   “I tell you it’s Lewis! I never trusted him! I tell you to find Lewis and do it now! Brother in Chicago! Four of us closed that vault. Three of us are here. I don’t know how he did it — that’s your job. But he did it as sure as I’m standing here.”
   The brother in Chicago, of course, knew nothing of a visit from Lewis. It did not take the police long to find out that Lewis had gone to New York, that the head teller had actually paid for his ticket with a bill from the missing Augustino payroll, and that all his clothes and small personal belongings were gone.
   They noticed that Marion was missing, too, and the Chief was suspicious. But a call to Lake George showed that a Marion Astor had indeed checked in at a hotel there. A small additional safeguard. The woman Johns had paid would not stay quiet long, but Marion would not be around him long.
   “Okay,” the Chief of Police said. “It looks like Lewis, all right. His prints are on the vault where the Augustino payroll was lifted. I’ve got New York searching.”
   “They could have trouble finding him,” Johns said. “We don’t have a picture. He’ll be in hiding, false name and all.”
   “Well,” the Chief said. “Maybe one of you should go down there and help out.”
   The president jumped at the idea.“Excellent, Bone. A little action at last.”
   John S. Johns said,“You should stay here, sir. Perhaps Mr. Sackville—”
   And Sackville reacted according to plan. The executive vice-president bristled, glared at Johns, and said,“We’ve too much to do here, Johns. Moss and I have to get new payrolls ready, and check with Federal Reserve. You know that. I think you better be the one to go.”
   If it had not worked, John S. Johns would have found another way to leave Jamesville. But it was all working as planned, and he smiled when the Chief of Police offered to drive him to the station.
   “I’ll be glad to go,” Johns said. “My wife’s away. Just let me pack a toothbrush, Chief Bone.”
   Under the eyes of the Chief of Police, Johns took down the suitcase full of money, opened it, made sure that the Chief saw it was empty, and packed it with a few odd clothes. He made sure the Chief saw his closet full of clothes, too. The Chief seemed convinced.
   In New York he checked into a hotel, not the Commander. He checked the money at the East Side Terminal, validated the ticket he had bought weeks ago under a false name, and took a taxi to Police Headquarters.
   The Police had not found Lewis yet. Johns looked at suspects for three hours. An hour and a half before his plane was due to leave, he stood up.
   “I think I’ll get a bite to eat,” he said. “Then I better try to get some sleep. You know where to reach me.”
   “Go ahead, Mr. Johns,” the Detective-Captain said. “Probably nothing of importance will come up before morning.”
   Johns left the police and went back to his hotel. He went up to his room and put in a call to Jamesville. He called Chief Bone and told him to tell old man Moss to call New York. He lighted a cigarette and waited. The call came through in ten minutes.
   He told the bank president that the police thought they had Lewis, but that it had turned out to be a false alarm. He was an insurance company executive with the same name. After he hung up he went down to the desk.
   “I’m going back to Jamesville,” he told the clerk. “If the police call, tell them something came up but I’ll be back in the morning. I’ll keep the room. My bags are still up there.”
   All the way to Idlewild he grinned to himself in the taxi. The money was in his hands, and the parachute was inside the souvenir cushion cover in Marion’s suitcase. The story he’d told the clerk should hold the police until late tomorrow even if they found Lewis and heard his story.
   If they checked the call that was supposed to have sent him back to Jamesville, it had really come from Jamesville. It would take them at least until noon tomorrow to believe Lewis and begin to figure it all out. And by then he would be over the Gulf of Mexico. He fingered the pistol in his pocket. Once he was over the Gulf, it wouldn’t matter how much they found out.

   The shots still echoed in John S. Johns’ ears as he ran for the plane. He made the plane and went aboard. He settled in his seat in the grimy twin-engined aircraft. There were only six other people on the unscheduled flight. Mobile to Vera Cruz. He did not look at his fellow passengers; they were not going to be around him for long.
   He leaned back in his seat and closed his eyes to keep from laughing out loud. It had all worked like clock-work. Marion was dead, he was free, and by now perhaps they had found out what he had done. But it made no difference now.
   At worst they were looking for him in New York. At best they had not even found Lewis yet. Stupid Meade Lewis could still be waiting in some hotel room for Marion to come back. But it did not matter. Nothing mattered as the DC-3 took off into the Gulf of Mexico that Sunday morning.
   He was prepared to use force if anything came over the radio to tell the pilot to stop him. But nothing came over, and he waited patiently until it was time to make his last move.
   The plane would cross the Mexican coast when it was exactly twenty minutes from Vera Cruz. Johns had checked the route carefully on his earlier trip to Mobile. But to make sure, he rang for the steward-co-pilot. They did not carry a steward or stewardess on a flight like this. He had made sure of that too. The co-pilot looked annoyed.
   “What do you want?”
   “I’m afraid I’m not feeling well,” he said. “Are we on schedule?”
   “Ten minutes behind,” the co-pilot said. “What’s wrong?”
   “I’m afraid it’s my heart. But I think I can hold out if we’re in Vera Cruz in less than an hour.”
   The pilot looked concerned.“You’re sure?”
   “Thirty minutes to Vera Cruz?” Johns said.
   “On the nose,” the co-pilot said. “No trouble from here on.
   The co-pilot turned to go. Johns clutched at his heart and groaned. The co-pilot turned back to him. Johns gasped out,“Back there — the washroom! Pill!”
   “Hold on,” the co-pilot said.
   Helped by the co-pilot, John S. Johns staggered back to the washroom. Inside he turned and hit the co-pilot with all his strength with the butt of his pistol. The co-pilot went down.
   Johns bent over him and hit him again and again until he was sure the man was dead. Then he left the washroom, jammed the door with a piece of wire, and went back to his seat.
   At his seat he picked up his two suitcases, the large one with the money, and the small one with the parachute hidden inside the innocent-looking cushion cover. In Mobile, while he had waited for Marion to arrive, he had put on the parachute harness under his clothes. Now he walked forward to the pilot’s compartment. His watch said they would cross the coast in less than three minutes.
   The pilot looked back at him.“No passengers in here,” he said.
   “We should be crossing the coast,” John S. Johns said.
   “Couple of minutes,” the pilot said, “you can see it dead ahead.”
   “Yes, I see it,” Johns said. He placed the small suitcase where he could reach it quickly next to the escape hatch. The large suitcase he placed beside the small one. Then he took out his pistol.
   “Open the escape hatch,” Johns said.
   The pilot stared at the pistol.“You’re crazy.”
   “Open it.”
   The pilot set the automatic pilot and bent to open the hatch. Wind rushed through the cockpit. The pilot stood up.“Where’s my co-pilot?”
   “I knocked him out,” John S. Johns said.
   “Why?” The pilot stared at him. “So you jump, they’ll pick you up in a day. What’d you do? Rob someone?”
   “Right the first time,” Johns said. “And no, they won’t pick me up. I’m afraid this is arranged.” He looked below, they were already inside the coast of Mexico. He said, “Go back to your seat. Quick!”
   The pilot went back and took the plane off automatic.“Turn back toward the sea.”
   “What?” the co-pilot said.
   “Turn back out to sea! Now!”
   Johns waved his pistol. The pilot began to turn the plane. When the plane was heading back toward the line far below where the land met the sea, the pilot looked at Johns.
   “Your boat better be close. We’ve got maybe gas for half an hour,” he said.
   “You won’t need it. Set the automatic pilot.”
   The pilot slowly set the automatic and turned in his seat to face Johns.“Now what?”
   “Now you crash, I’m afraid.”
   The pilot looked at the pistol.“You’re going to shoot me?” he asked, his lips white.
   “Oh no, not that,” Johns said. “If I wanted evidence left in the plane I could have planted a bomb. It would have been easier. But this crash is going to look like a simple crash — no injuries that couldn’t come from a crash. Not to the people or the plane.
   “That’s why I didn’t shoot your co-pilot. They’ll never wonder about one missing body. With any luck the sharks will get all of us... I mean you.”
   And John S. Johns looked down. The plane was nearly back to the edge of the sea below. He stepped forward and hit the pilot. He moved so quickly the pilot did not have a chance. He hit the pilot twice more. The pilot lay still. The plane continued to fly toward the sea.
   Johns put his pistol in his trouser pocket, took off his suit jacket and his shirt exposing the parachute harness, and bent down to open his small suitcase.
   He stood there bent over for a long time. When he straightened up he held a small envelope in his hand. He stared at it, and he stared down at the three bottles of champagne in his suitcase.
   On the envelope he read the words:For A Wonderful Honeymoon to My Love. The words were in Marion’s sprawling, childish handwriting. John S. Johns opened the envelope. He read the words aloud in the humming silence of the pilot’s cabin.
   My darling, I’ll be your pillow forever. And what’s a honeymoon without champagne and a silk robe for my man. Love, Marion. P.S. Don’t be mad. It was an awful old cushion, too hard and lumpy.
   John S. Johns looked down at the open suitcase. Next to the champagne bottles there was a box wrapped in white gift paper. A silk robe, of course. Bought in New York, probably. And he had given her the money.
   He bent over the pilot, but the man was dead. He had hit the man very hard. He looked at his watch. Perhaps twenty minutes before the gas ran out. He began to laugh. He sat there and laughed for a long time. He laughed as he looked at the champagne bottles, and at the big suitcase filled with money.
   John S. Johns laughed until the motors sputtered, coughed, and went dead. The plane veered off at a sharp angle and headed down for the sea. In the cabin the passengers began to scream. He began to scream with the others.
   Mink Is for a Minx
   by Tighe Jarratt
   Chip Stack ogled the cabana photo of the glamorous Mrs. S. E. T. Harrison for a full minute, gave three seconds each to the pages of the insurance report, and returned his lecherous thoughts to the photo.
   “A minx without a mink is like a fish without its scales,” he said. “I’ll bet she has been raising hell.”
   Richard Ramsey, chief of Claims and Settlements, rattled the check on his desk.“Seventeen thousand dollars worth of hell, and I have no excuse to hold up the settlement.”
   Stack snapped his thumb against the bottom of his cigarette pack to make one jump into his shark-shaped mouth.“You’re being taken! That was the old coat check switcheroo, without trimmings. Some broad walked in with a rat and checked it early in the evening. Then Mrs. Harrison arrived and checked her mink. The two met in the powder room or at the bar and exchanged coat checks. Then the broad walked outwith the mink and left the rat for Harrison.”
   “The switch could have been a sleight,” Ramsey said. “There’re still some artists around who could take the dentures out of your mouth and stuff it with a baked potato. Or the coats may have been physically switched on the hangers in the checkroom. Or the check girl may have palmed Mrs. Harrison’s proper check and sneaked it to some accomplice. There’s a third possibility. In the confusion of the dinner rush, the check girl may have made an honest mistake and given the coat checks to the wrong parties.”
   “Or maybe the mink was a muskrat in disguise!” Chip Stack jeered.
   Ramsey shrugged his bony shoulders.“In any case, we’re liable and we’re paying.” He scaled the check expertly into theOutgoing box.
   “If you’re settling, why call me in?” Stack grunted.
   Ramsey removed his rimless glasses to polish them.“Because if the coat girl made an honest error in the rush and got the checks mixed up, then some career girl in the muskrat bracket is walking around with a seventeen thousand dollar mink on her back — and she is not technically guilty of one damn thing. What we need now is the special aptitude of a shamus who will go to practically any length to get the clothes off some frightened woman’s back. Naturally, we thought of you.”
   “I always cherish your high opinions of me,” Chip acknowledged. “You boys want the coat back, but you don’t dare go after it. What are you going to do with an old coat?”
   “Return it to Mrs. Harrison with the suggestion she relinquish the new one she will have by then.”
   Chip Stack chortled.“You may know the insurance laws, but you sure don’t know women! You’d have a better chance getting the settlement returned by her old man.”
   “The age of miracles is past,” Ramsey said dryly. “He happens to be on the board of our own bank, and he didn’t get there without learning that bona fide settlements cannot be repossessed. Just bring in the old coat and you’ll earn your fee.”
   Stack poked on his hat and raised his chubby body erect with the surprising ease of a seal surfacing.“I have a terrific streak of chivalry,” he confessed. “I’d much rather bring you in the money.” He punched out his cigarette and moved toward the door with his rolling, carefree gait.
   Ramsey’s drill voice pinned him on the doorsill. “You might bear in mind that if you get arrested for blackmail, illegal entry, or named as a correspondent, we don’t know you.”
   Chip Stack bowed.“A man appreciates that solid, old school-tie type of loyalty.”
   He sauntered around to the investigation file room and got the scuttlebutt on the check girl. Bonded without a question. Not a blemish on her record in six years of checking at the plush spas. Supporting a crippled brother. Savings account. No addiction to alcohol, drugs, or gambling. No steady boy friends— shady or otherwise.
   And a real cute trick, fore, aft and sidewise. It was amazing what the files of an insurance company could produce.
   Stack found Rosa Antonelli cleaning house, with a smudged nose, a towel tied in rabbit ears around her head, her skirts tucked up peasant fashion, her feet bare and dirty from mopping. It took a special type of girl to look good under those circumstances. She was the type.
   She made him a cup of java, talking from the kitchenette. It was clear she was worried as hell over her bond and future jobs.
   She called with a catch in her voice,“I suppose you think I made a mistake in the checks or the coats, too — unless you think something worse! But I want to tell you, Mr. Stark, there was no mistake of any kind.”
   “Now take it easy, Rosa, and I’ll try to clear you,” he advised.
   She brought his coffee, her eyes shining with gratitude.“I don’t know why. Everybody else has good as called me a thief!”
   He took her hand reassuringly and seated her opposite, where he could enjoy her knees.“Let’s just recall the evening.”
   “Well, it was rushed, but I was alone on the checkroom. When I’m alone, I never handle more than one party at a time. So I couldn’t have gotten any checks mixed up except right in the Harrison party.”
   She thought back a minute.“The Harrisons came in late. They had to wait for a vacant table at the bar. By that time, the back check racks were full and I was using the very front ones, with the check numbers near two hundred. Mr. Harrison’s number was one ninety-two, for instance.”
   Rosa Antonelli spoke rapidly and had her facts in order. But of course, she’d already recounted the facts half a dozen times to police, routine insurance investigators, the bonding company, her bosses.
   “The Harrisons were late leaving and there weren’t many coats left. All the other coats were where they should be, on the front racks. But Mrs. Harrison handed in check thirty-six, and it was the last coat on the back rack. You see what I’m getting at?”
   Stack nodded.“She shouldn’t have had check thirty-six to begin with. But if there had been some error in the check stubs, the coat for thirty-six should still have been on the front rack.”
   The check girl nodded, but tears filled her eyes.“I tried to say that, but nobody would listen. Mr. Harrison was sure I was a thief, and wanted me thrown in jail right then. And Mrs. Harrison was telling the manager that she’d certainly given me back the same check I gave her.”
   Stack laid a hand upon her knee to stop her.“Mrs. Harrison gave you her own check? I mean, in that kind of restaurant, isn’t it usual for a lady’s escort to carry both checks?”
   “Yes it is and that’s what I was trying to make her see — that some smart operator might have seen her tuck the check in her evening bag, and pulled something when she laid it on the bar, maybe. If she’d only listened, maybe she could have remembered who sat next to her or stood behind her or if she laid her purse down in the powder room—”
   Rosa choked up suddenly.“But all they wanted to do was blame me!” she sobbed.
   “Now,” Stack said sympathetically, “I’m not blaming you, and maybe you’ve solved the whole thing without knowing it.”
   “Oh, Mr. Stack!” She reached his hand impulsively and hugged it against her neck. “If you’d just tell that to the bonding company, I’d do anything—”
   “Hrrrrumm,” he nodded.“Well, I’ll need quite a little help from you. Private and confidential, of course.”
   “Any time you want to see me,” she agreed with the vaguest hint of color in her cheeks. “And I’ll tell you something, Mr. Stack, if I had been stealing, I’d have wanted the imitation, not that lavish mink of Mrs. Harrison’s.”
   “Do you have any recollection of the woman who checked the other coat?” he asked.
   Rosa shook her head.“I’ve tried and tried but can’t remember. But it was still a lovely coat, Mr. Stack. Compared with the Harrisons, she may have been dirt poor, but she still must dress very beautifully.”
   “Maybe you’ll have a coat like that someday,” Chip said, and smiled.
   “Oh! I’d really do anything—” she burst out.
   “Hrrrumm!” he said again.
   He made some chitchat to relax her and then took a taxi to his apartment, where he could pursue investigation reclining with a Scotch and phone. There wasn’t a doubt in his mind that the culprit was Lili Harrison herself, in spite of her husband’s wealth. Women just didn’t pick up their own coat checks when escorted by their husbands.
   However, he double-checked with some fairly reliable gossip mongers, and came up with what he expected. S.E.T. Harrison had been badly hurt in last summer’s stock crash and had been raising hell about household expenses ever since. He’d gone further and reduced the staff of his oceangoing yacht to a skeleton crew just big enough to keep the vessel in commission.
   When a yachtsman was driven to that deprivation, he would certainly deny his wife the extravagance of a new coat he considered unnecessary. But Lili Harrison was not the kind to see it in that light. The mink was well-known and four years old. She had always made a particular point of trading in for a new one a year ahead of the time interval that was customary with most wealthy women. The easy alternative to the impasse was to sock the insurance company.
   As far as the method went, that was easy to figure. The question was, who had been her trusted confederate, or confederates, and how could she be sure of trusting them?
   In this case, that factor alone eliminated her maid. It required well-oiled underworld connections to sell a coat like that, and a maid would not have them. And she’d not dare wear the coat herself. So the coat would be valueless for purchasing her timeless silence.
   Chip Stack mixed himself another drink and considered that the check girl had supplied that answer, too. She was the only one who had noted that the switched coat, although of very moderate value, must have belonged to a very well-dressed woman— the kind of a woman who could wear mink if she had the money. One who moved socially high enough so that her appearance in a refinished mink would not arouse too much curiosity.
   That sounded like some poor but social friend of Lili’s, just the kind of friend a rich woman would have. That kind of a friend could be trusted eternally, because her own social position would be involved, and because she’d lose the mink if she made one slip. The old mink would be her reward for helping Lili Harrison gain a new one.
   Chip Stack was satisfied with his picture and phoned an old friend who moved on the fringes of the Gold Coast crowd in Westchester. Adroitly, he learned that Lili Harrison had just such a playmate, a girl named Valerie Snowden, married to a fatheaded cousin of that prominent family, without the brains or gumption to make them a decent income. What it boiled down to was that Valerie’s good times were largely the result of knowing Lili Harrison. As might be expected with such a dumbun husband, Valerie liked her martinis and the ponies. She was damned good-looking, too, the friend added.
   That was too bad, Stack considered. He did have his streak of chivalry— he hated framing pretty women.
   He hopped in his Mercedes Special and drove out to Westchester. The upper crust would not do their bar hopping at obvious, popular places, but such communities were invariably dotted by discreet little back-lane bistros where they were relatively safe in letting down their hair. One such place always led to another.
   It took four days and nine bars to pick up the haunts of Valerie Snowden. It was an unduly long time for Chip Stack to reconnoiter, but he was handicapped by not daring to mention the Harrisons or Valerie Snowden even casually. Just a whispered rumor that a stranger was interested in them might get that mink buried deeper than a skunk’s hide.
   He might have eased things by a little social name-dropping, but that could be a trap, too. So he let himself appear in a character role that wouldn’t expose him to too many risks — that of a well-heeled, self-made man on a little loup while away from the wife. A man without any social pretensions, and quiet enough not to alarm the Gold Coast strata.
   He was a good tipper and did much of his drinking in the off hours when the bartenders had time and freedom to talk, and it was the bartender with the passion for the ponies who first mentioned her. They’d been talking horses for two days when Chip Stack expressed the opinion that long shots were smarter betting than favorites.
   “Now that’s a funny thing for anyone who knows the ponies to say,” the bartender argued. “But maybe there’s something to it. We have a customer, a Mrs. Snowden, who’s making a mink coat on longshots. She picks ’em, too. She’s got it almost made.”
   “I’m not that good,” Chip chuckled. “I ought to get her system.”
   Privately, he was blessing the devil for the break. He’d been growing afraid that she was a home drinker and a kind of uppity wench who wouldn’t speak to the hoi poloi. But it was now assured that she did make the rounds and was not above chumming with a bartender, which meant that she often stopped by alone.
   They had some more random talk and then a couple entered from the side door. The bartender confided with a mutter,“The longshot lady and her useless.”
   Seating herself, the girl looked Chip Stack over with the open curiosity of her kind about a stranger who had invaded a more or less private club. She and her husband joshed the bartender in friendly fashion while they had a martini.
   Then leaving, she laughed,“Henry, you’d better pick a damned good long shot for me tomorrow. I’ve got everything but the collar on that coat!”
   So, Chip Stack thought, she’s using the ponies to set up the explanation of how she came by Lili’s coat when she begins to wear it. Lili Harrison got her check and new coat. They figure the investigation’s over, and all’s clear now for Valerie as soon as she gets a new collar to disguise the coat around the home neighborhood.
   He had another drink himself on that, and then drove in town and brightened the check girl’s spirits with the report that the case was breaking and she’d soon be in the clear. But he’d still need her help for identification, of course.
   At noon next day Stack opened the Westchester bistro, armed with aTelegraph and the scratch sheet. He’d also learned the name of a possible long shot in the first, and he gave a ten to Henry to play on a split, just to prove his theory.
   Henry phoned in the bet and Chip had an eye-opener and brunch, and he was making up his day’s bets when Valerie Snowden came in wearing flannel slacks that fitted her from all sides, which was an achievement among young matrons. She really had something. It was going to hurt Chip Stack to turn her in.
   Henry had just served her drink when his bookie phoned back that the long shot had come in. Henry emerged from the phone, as excited as a kid. He explained to Valerie what the excitement was all about, and she made a face and complained that he hadn’t acted like a friend in not including her in.
   It was a three-way conversation now with no suspicions raised, and Stack said that he didn’t see much more he felt confident about today, but there would be some horses running tomorrow. The hitch was, he confessed, that he’d have to be in town and right at a bookmaker’s to get the tips, and there wouldn’t be time to phone her.
   “But you probably know the spot,” he added. “It’s the upstairs lounge of theParakeet, and they serve a better lunch than downstairs. I think half the women drop in more for lunch than for the bet.”
   She showed surprise.“You mean that plush spa is simply the front for a bookie — and I never even suspected it? Of course; I know the place. It’s very toni.”
   She looked at him speculatively.“If I were sitting right here waiting and Henry could make my bet right away, don’t you think there’d be time for you to phone?”
   “Well—” he murmured. “You know how it is. They have some private way of getting reports, but they probably don’t like outgoing calls about bets.”
   She made a cute, wry face.
   “But if you’d really like to bet,” he said, “I’m driving in at noon and I have to be back here by seven sharp — earlier if possible. It’s a pretty select spot. You wouldn’t have to worry about being seen.” He laughed good-naturedly. “Unless it was being seen with me.”
   She thought it over. It was clear she was busting to cap her phoney story and have the excuse to wear the mink. She said,“No woman would feel self conscious about riding in a Mercedes. But it’s not a convertible, is it?”
   “No,” he agreed. “It’s strictly wide open. You’d have to bundle.”
   “Well—” she said.
   He watched the excited lights flicking through her eyes, and knew exactly what she was thinking. It was a chance to wear the coat in town before the collar was changed, where it wouldn’t be recognized, and also the opportunity to package her excuse so that she could appear in the remodelled coat locally any time now.
   “I’d like to go if you’ll really be back by seven,” she said. “But I’ll have to be on the dot. I have to be at dinner at eight.”
   He made a gesture.“We’ll hit ’em hard and duck back as early as you like.”
   Valerie Snowden studied him and relaxed even while he could feel her gathering excitement. But he knew damned well that she would not have made a date with a stranger except for the coat. It was a funny thing what a woman would do for a mink.
   He met her next day at the shopping center where she parked her car. The day was cold and clear, and he’d set his trap right. She picked a luxurious mink off the seat beside her and pulled it on as she darted from her car to his and snuggled in the open seat.
   The lounge of theParakeet was loaded with women in mink, but Valerie drew special envious attention even from that crowd. They ordered lunch and made their bet for the second race, Chip Stack betting a hundred with the usual proviso that if it hit, half of it would be hers. He could sense her calculating what the bet would bring, her excitement growing as she realized that it would pay for the remodeling of the coat.
   Chip Stack played across the board and when the horse romped in for place, Valerie had a woman’s usual reactions to soaring excitement and visited the powder room. It gave him the chance he needed to examine the coat under the lining, his practiced eye quickly finding the identifying marks of the furrier and the insurance code on the backs of the hides.
   He could have ended the case there, either by turning her in or simply walking out with the coat. The insurance company hadn’t asked for an arrest — simply for the mink. But she was a beautiful girl with excitement in her, and Chip’s chivalry was fired by his romantic spirit. He said nothing until they were on the crowded highway returning — early, as he’d promised.
   Then he said,“Well, I’m glad you came out winning. It may help to pay the lawyer.”
   Valerie Snowden sat up sharp, staring at him with sudden alarm.“Lawyer?” she repeated.
   “You’ll probably need one,” Stack explained. “To get you out of the rap of stealing Lili Harrison’s coat.”
   “So you’re a detective!” she cried. She broke all to pieces for a moment, then caught herself in hand. But that one bitter challenge was the slip that confirmed his theory of the switch beyond any possibility of doubt.
   “It isn’t Lili’s coat, and Lili will back that!” she declared haughtily.
   “It carries her insurance marks,” he told her.
   He saw her hand snap into a fist, but she was a cool one and she had her alibi.“If it’s hers, I didn’t know it,” she bit out. “Somebody left it at the house one night, but I didn’t find it until the other day and nobody had inquired about it. I didn’t see how it could be Lili’s, seeing that she lost hers at a New York restaurant, but I called her home anyway.”
   Even the best turn weasel when they’re caught! he thought cynically. But she surprised him.
   “She wasn’t home, but I spoke to Seth — her husband. In fact, I’m still burning at his rudeness. He practically told me I must be drunk, that it could not possibly be her coat, and as she already had her new one, he didn’t want to hear any more about it. Then he as good as hung up.”
   Chip Stack’s mood brightened and he grinned with admiration. Those two cool chicks had figured Harrison out and involved him without his knowing it, just in case something did go wrong sometime, so that he’d have to stick behind them.
   “So,” she bit out with scathing anger, “if she got mixed up about the fur she wore to town that night, I can’t help it. I wasn’t the witness — her husband was.”
   “Well, it can be very easily settled, if your statement is correct,” Stack said. “I’ll just return this coat to her in exchange for her new one, and the insurance company won’t come out too badly.”
   “But... but this is my coat now!” she cried with deeper feeling than the first fright had roused. “It is!It is! I didn’t steal it. Lili’s husband wouldn’t even look at it, and no matter how it happened, it’s mine as long as nobody claims it!”
   “But I’ve already claimed it for the insurance company,” Chip said quietly. “Unless you’d rather have me turn it over to the police.”
   “Oh no!” she breathed. Then she bent her face into her hands and sobbed the real sorrow on her mind. “But I’ll never— never get another chance to own a mink like this!”
   He let her cry a space and then he said,“Now, you might. You might even get to keep this coat.”
   Her sobs shut off like a faucet. Every fiber in her was listening.
   “And Lili Harrison may also get to keep hers,” he added. “If you’ve told the truth about the phone call.”
   “I have! I swear it! You can ask Seth!”
   Chip Stack nodded.“I intend to. Now I’m going to take this coat over there and try to straighten this out so everybody’s happy, but you’ll upset the apple cart with any phone calls.”
   “I won’t do anything to hurt her!” she declared.
   “This won’t hurt her. She’ll probably get to keep her new coat out of it. So you just clam up until things are settled.”
   “How will I know if I can’t phone her?”
   “She’ll phone you damned fast. But if she doesn’t, and you see her wearing her new coat after tonight, you’ll know everything’s worked out.”
   “And I’ll get this one back?” she breathed.
   He pulled up beside her car in the shopping center and looked at her.“Any time you want to come in town and call for it — it will be at my apartment.”
   She got the message. Scorn flashed in her eyes. But she didn’t say no. She said, “You’re a real fink, aren’t you?”
   “A fink for a mink,” he grinned. “But mink are for minx.” He gave her his card. “All the essentials. Just call me.”
   She wriggled out of the coat angrily, but she rammed his card into her pocket book. She crossed to her own car without another word, reached in, and pulled on a sport coat. It was clear that she hadn’t dared wear the mink from her home, so her alibi was phoney and the deal had been a criminal switch transpiring at the New York restaurant, as he’d felt sure.
   He backed his car out and gave it the gun for Harrison’s estate. He got a lofty reception from the butler. The Harrisons were dressing, the butler insisted.
   “I think Mrs. Harrison will want to see me anyway,” Chip Stack grunted. “I have located her lost coat.”
   She saw him fast and privately in her personal suite. She didn’t even take time to don a more formal robe in place of the very alluring one in which she came, still damp, from her bath. She shot one glance at the coat and dismissed the maid and butler before she even looked at Chip.
   She lighted a cigarette coolly and remained on her feet.“I suppose,” she remarked tartly, “that is the coat poor Valerie thought might be mine.”
   “It is yours, Mrs. Harrison,” he said. “You are probably not aware of the fact that valuable coats like this are furrier and insurance marked.”
   She sat down with abrupt anger and crossed her legs. Her negligee fell away, and she looked better than in the photo taken at Palm Beach.
   He said,“Of course, if Mr. Harrison wishes to reimburse the insurance company for its settlement, the company will have no further interest in the coats.”
   “That miser would rather see me naked!” she declared. Chip Stack had his own thought about that, but restrained it. But it must have exuded from him like the beat of a tomtom, for she looked at him with sudden keen speculation.
   “I’d rather burn up my mink than return it to the insurance company!” she said. “But maybe you have some alternative?”
   Chip Stack looked directly at her bare legs. He said,“I think it could be handled quietly and without a report.”
   She smiled coolly and said nothing.
   “I think perhaps I can persuade Mr. Harrison to make you a gift of your new mink,” he said.
   She inhaled deeply and blew the smoke out slowly. She got to her feet and crossed to him and lifted two fingers to tap his chin.“Try it. Maybe you’re worth knowing,” she said. “That is — if you succeed.”
   She gave a wry smile and opened the door to the hall.“If you’ll wait downstairs, I’ll have Mr. Harrison see you.”
   He handed her one of his private cards.“It will be a pleasure to see you again wearing your new mink.”
   “That is the only way you will,” she said, and stood musingly watching him to the stairs.

   In five minutes, Mr. Seth Harrison appeared in the library, arrogant and bad-tempered from being disturbed at dressing. He started to threaten and bully from the height of his unassailable position.
   Chip Stack let him run out of wind and then held out the coat on his arm.“Mr. Harrison, this is the coat that you swore to the police that your wife was wearing and lost at theGay Paree. It was entirely on the strength of your identification that the insurance settlement was made. Now it has shown up at Valerie Snowden’s, who says it was left at her house, and that she so informed you personally, but you refused to see it for possible identification.”
   Harrison turned purple, but he stood his ground.“If it was a mistake, it was a mistake that the insurance company accepted after due investigation! The only legal restitution that can be demanded is Mrs. Harrison’s new coat.”
   “That would be satisfactory to the company, but it involves a detailed report of the circumstances. The report, of course, will have to emphasize your error of memory as to which coat Mrs. Harrison was wearing at theGay Paree, and your peculiar attitude in refusing to see the coat Valerie Snowden found at her house. In fact, the report may require a brand-new investigation.”
   Harrison’s eyes spit fire, but his color drained to grey.
   “And you will probably wish to give your wife a new fur soon in any case,” Chip Stack said guilelessly. “It might wind the whole matter up more satisfactorily for everyone if you just let her keep her new coat and made restitution to the insurance company in cash.”
   “Upon what grounds?” Harrison snapped.
   “That the lost coat has been accounted for after a mistake and so you are returning the insurance settlement. I can promise you that the company will have no further interest in the matter.”
   Harrison stalked to a desk, ripped out a checkbook and, writing quickly, finally thrust a check for the full amount at Chip Stack.
   Chip bowed with admiration.“A most generous surprise for your wife, Mr. Harrison. This coat is rather worn and she wanted to give it to Valerie Snowden anyway.”
   He left the house humming softly. There was only one remaining chore now, to clear the check girl officially and get Rosa the coat that had been left in the switch.
   Chip Stack felt quite chivalrous. Everybody was getting what they wanted, including himself. A very just reward for minx— and finks.
   Murder of an Unknown Man
   by James Holding
   We couldn’t get an id on the corpse for three days. When, through a lucky accident, we finally did learn the man’s name, we refused to believe it. And by the time we figured out the motive for his murder, the dead man himself had to reveal some hidden evidence before we could prove it.
   But maybe I’d better start at the beginning.
   I’m Randall, Lieutenant of Detectives in Riverside. Riverside is a comparatively small and crimefree community. So when this unknown man was found by a newsboy early one morning, lying in a gutter on Catalpa Street with his skull bashed in, I thought that it was just another hit-and-run killing or, at worst, a simple local bludgeon murder.
   That kind of killing we could run down easily enough, because violent death is so rare and essentially unprofessional in Riverside.
   I began to realize I was wrong, however, when the unknown man continued to remain unknown for three days, despite my best efforts.
   The clothes he was wearing when the boys brought him in offered no clue as to his identity. The pockets were empty, all of them— a suspicious circumstance in itself. All labels, makers’ names, laundry marks, and so on had been carefully removed from his suit, shirt, underwear, and even the inside of his shoes. And although somewhat crumpled and soiled from lying in the gutter of Catalpa Street for some time, the clothes were of decent enough quality to be completely average and unremarkable.
   I was far from discouraged by our failure to learn his identity from his clothing or possessions, however. I knew that almost invariably, somebody will call up the police very soon after a body is found to report a missing child, lover, parent, or close acquaintance that will help us to establish the identity of any unknown corpses we may happen to have on hand.
   But for this homicide victim, nobody telephoned at all. Nobody reported anyone missing, strayed, stolen, or drunk, even. Our Missing Persons had no record of a worried relative wanting us to find someone who remotely resembled the murdered man.
   And nobody on the whole police department staff had ever seen the guy before in Riverside, or knew anybody who might have seen him. He was a stranger, all right— a complete outsider in a small city where almost everybody is known to everybody else.
   I asked Doc Sanderson, our part-time and informal medical examiner, to look the corpse over for any body marks that might give us a lead we could work on, but that proved useless, too. All he found were a couple of incision scars from very common operations, likely to be found on the bodies of a thousand different people.
   Docdid tell me, deadpan, that in his opinion the man had been killed by a strong blow on the back of the head with some heavy object— a diagnosis that I didn’t need a medical degree to figure out for myself.
   “You mean like a club, Doc?” I asked him. “Or the bumper of a hit-run car, maybe?”
   “Like a club,” Doc answered me. “This fellow may have been pushed out of a car into the gutter after he was killed, but I’m pretty sure he wasn’t hit by a car. The body isn’t beat up enough for that. No bruises anywhere on him except that crack on the head.”
   Meanwhile, I’d sent the fingerprints of the dead man to Washington, and that proved a dead end, too, if you’ll excuse the pun. No prints on file.
   I decided then that the only thing I could do was to display the corpse in our morgue and plant some publicity in theRiverside Herald about him, urging as many of our citizens as possible to come to the morgue and see if the guy was anybody they knew or had ever seen a picture of.
   I figured that pure morbid curiosity would induce a goodly number of Riversiders to file past the slab in the morgue where our unknown man lay with his head wound concealed, so as not to shock the sensitive.
   I certainly turned out to be a good prophet in that respect. Half the people in town came by the morgue during the next twenty-four hours to take a look at the mysterious stranger who had been found brutally murdered out on Catalpa Street.
   And that’s how we eventually found out his name.
   Joe Cook, the desk clerk over at the Riverside House, our nicest hotel, came down to the morgue when he was off-duty around five o’clock and filed past the slab with the other citizens to take a look. After that, he came into my office upstairs.
   “Lieutenant,” he said. “I’ve seen that guy you got downstairs. I just had a look at him, and I’d swear I saw him at Riverside House a few days ago.”
   “Staying there, was he?” I asked, feeling that at last I had a lead.
   “No,” Joe said. “He wasn’t staying there. This guy just came into the lobby about ten in the morning.”
   “From where?”
   “How do I know? Maybe he just got off the morning train. It was about that time.”
   “Did he come up to you at the desk?”
   “Nope. But I wasn’t very busy at the time, and I happened to notice him come in.”
   “What did he do?”
   “Just came into the lobby,” Joe repeated. “Went over to the telephone booth and looked in the phone book for a minute or two. He didn’t make a call, though. Then he wandered over and sat down at one of our writing desks in the writing alcove and wrote something.”
   “What happened then?”
   “He left, that’s all!”
   “Didn’t he mail what he’d written or buy a stamp from you?”
   “Nope. He just folded up what he wrote and stuck it in his pocket.”
   I got up.“Come on, Joe,” I said. “Show me which desk he was writing at.”
   Joe showed me. It was one of the three writing desks in a little writing alcove off the Riverside House lobby, but perfectly visible from the desk where Joe had been standing. I looked it over. There was a ballpoint pen fastened to the desk with a metal chain to keep guests from stealing it. There was a leather-edged blotter, perfectly clean, covering up most of the desk top. And there were a few sheets of hotel stationery with several hotel envelopes in a slot at the back of the desk.
   “Did he use this hotel paper to write on?” I asked Joe.
   “Yeah. I saw him reach out and take some and start writing on it with that ballpoint pen there.”
   “Okay,” I said. I reached out myself and took the sheets of stationery that were left in the desk slot and brought them out and looked at them crossways against the lobby light. “How many people have written at this desk since the man in the morgue?” I asked Joe.
   “Nobody I know of,” Joe said. “At least, not while I’ve been on duty. This is the seldomest-used desk of the three, Lieutenant — way over here in the corner like it is.”
   I said,“This top sheet of stationery has some marks on it, Joe. Maybe he pulled out more than one sheet by mistake and wrote on the top one, bearing down so heavy with the pen that his writing showed through and marked the next one. I’ve heard about such things happening. I couldn’t be that lucky, though.”
   But I was.
   I went back to the office and turned the sheet of hotel stationery over to Mark Godwin in our little lab, and sure enough, he messed around with graphite or something of the sort and brought up a clear message on that writing paper. He made a copy of it for me and brought it in. Here’s what it said:
   Dear Doctor:
   For 16 years you’ve owed me a $750 back payment. Now I’m in town to collect it — with interest. I’ll be in touch tonight.John Smith
   I read it down to the signature and then I swore out loud and said to Mark,“John Smith! You’re kidding!”
   “No,” Mark said. “That’s what it was signed.”
   “There’s a million John Smiths running around loose in this country, Mark. And a fifth of them are using the name as a phoney, at that. You’re a great big help, you are.”
   “It ain’t my fault the guy’s name is John Smith,” Mark told me in a hurt voice and left me to my own devices.
   My first device was to call Doc Sanderson in, tell him about the note having been found, and show it to him.“You’re a doctor,” I told him, “and this note was written to a doctor. Does it mean anything more to you than it does to me?”
   Sanderson shook his head.“I can’t say it does, Lieutenant,” he said. “What’s it mean to you, incidentally?”
   “Well,” I said, “First of all, it’s signed with a phoney name. That’s obvious. Second, this so-called John Smith is dunning some Riverside doctor for an old debt — a doctor that John Smith used to work for sixteen years ago. And third, it sounds like Smith isn’t going to be satisfied to collect his legitimate debt of seven hundred and fifty skins and let it go at that. He’s also going to put the bite on the good doctor for sixteen years’ interest on the money.”
   “Why do you think this doctor Smith was writing to is here in Riverside?” Doc asked.
   “Because John Smith didn’t mail the note when he wrote it. He stuck it in his pocket and carried it away after consulting the telephone book at the hotel for a local address. Obviously, he was going to deliver the note himself. Drop it in the doctor’s mail slot, maybe — right here in town.”
   “And you suspect that doctor, whoever he is, killed John Smith when he got in touch with him that night?”
   “You bet I do. Plenty of murders have been done for less than seven hundred and fifty dollars, Doc. It makes sense, doesn’t it?”
   “Y-e-s,” Doc admitted. “Especially if you read the note a little differently.”
   “What do you mean, differently? I can read English. And that’s what the words say, Doc.”
   “No, I meaninterpret the note differently. Suppose our murdered man downstairs isn’t just dunning this Riverside doctor an old debt and sixteen years’ interest. Suppose the words ‘with interest’ are a threat of blackmail? Because now John Smith has come into possession of something he can use to put pressure on this doctor he used to work for? The whole tone of the note is arrogant, self-assured, even a little threatening, it seems to me. As though John Smithknew the doctor would have to pay that old debt now. What do you think?”
   I said,“You could be right, Doc. And the blackmailer is signing his note John Smith just for kicks. Because he’d know the doctor would recognize his true identity from his reference to the old debt.”
   Doc Sanderson nodded.“Yes,” he said, “I’d say blackmail was a definite possibility. Approach it from that angle.”
   “Approach it hell,” I said. “How? We’ve got to find out who this doctor is before we can approach anything. You see that, don’t you, Doc?”
   He grinned his slow relaxed grin at me.“I can see that, all right,” he said, “and I don’t envy you your job.”
   “It’s a cinch,” I said. “I’ve got it all worked out. Look. The note is written by a guy nobody’s ever seen before in Riverside. He’s a stranger from out of town, right? His note practically says so. And we know that he used to work for, or at least knew, this particular doctor sixteenyears ago. That means the doctor wasn’t in Riverside either at that time. He was probably in the same town where the bogus John Smith resided. Do you follow me?”
   “Perfectly.”
   “Okay. So we check out all the doctors in Riverside, to see which ones werenot living here sixteen years ago. There aren’t too many doctors in a city this size, especially ones that came here from someplace else.”
   Doc Sanderson didn’t say anything.
   “Now, when we find out which doctors weren’t living here sixteen years ago, we send photographs of our John Smith to the police in the towns where the doctorswere living at that time. And the chances are, we’ll come up with a true identification of John Smith in one of those towns.
   “We’ll tie him to the specific doctor who came from that town, and who liveshere. You could help me with this, Doc, by getting me the dope on our doctors from the records of the county medical society. You’re a member, aren’t you?”
   Doc said,“Sure.” I stood up. But the Doc stayed seated. “But,” he said, “I don’t belong to the dental society, or the veterinary society. And I don’t happen to have a Ph.D. behind my name either.”
   I sat down again.“I didn’t think of that,” I said. “Dentists, vets, and Ph.D.’s are all doctors too, aren’t they?”
   “I just thought of it myself,” Doc said apologetically. “But it’s got to be considered.”
   That increased the difficulty of my checking job about five hundred percent, I estimated. And it reduced my chances of coming up with anything helpful by just as high a percentage.
   I sighed. Doc Sanderson sighed in sympathy.
   “This blackmail thing,” I said finally, just to be saying something. “Are doctors likely blackmail victims? Or rather, what would they be likely to be blackmailedabout?”
   “In general, the same indiscretions and sorry sins that laymen get blackmailed about,” Sanderson said. “After all, doctors are human, too.” He grinned at me again. “But to answer you question more specifically, I suppose when it comes to doctors, malpractice is the basis for most lawsuitsor blackmail schemes against us.”
   “Malpractice? You mean like giving a patient the wrong medicine?”
   “Sure. Or a hundred other wrong things that doctors can do — more often than not through accident, carelessness, or ignorance. Sometimes deliberately, however. Most doctors carry insurance against malpractice suits nowadays, so we don’t fear blackmail attempts the way we used to.”
   I thought about that for a moment. Then I said,“Doc, you mentioned the word ‘deliberately.’ Deliberate malpractice. If a doctor hadthat proved against him, he’d be washed up in any respectable community, wouldn’t he?”
   “It wouldn’t help him any, that’s for sure,” Sanderson said. A reminiscent smile curved his lips under the white mustache. “I remember when I was in medical school, we had a case history about a doctor who let his love of money run away with his integrity as a medical man. He practiced down south in a community of fairly uneducated, ignorant people, where he could get away with it. His specialty was performing fake hysterectomies on his lady patients.”
   Being a fairly uneducated, ignorant bachelor myself, I was about to ask Doc what a hysterectomy was, when the funniest look came over his face all at once, and without another word, he got up and went out of my office.
   I didn’t see him again for half an hour. When he came back, I was looking at the telephone book, trying just for the hell of it, to get a rough idea how many M.D.’s, Ph.D’s, D.D.S.’s and so forth there really were in Riverside. Doc had a big envelope under his arm.
   “Randall,” he said to me very softly, his face reflecting some kind of inner shame, “when we check out the doctors who weren’t in Riverside sixteen years ago, we can forget everybody but general practitioners and neurosurgeons.”
   “How come?” I asked him. “What’s happened to eliminate all the dentists and vets?”
   “I’ll show you,” he said, “if you’ll come to the morgue with me.”
   I went, of course. Doc Sanderson led me to the slab where John Smith lay. He pulled on an overhead bulb and drew the white sheet down from the corpse’s shoulders, so that when he turned the body over its back was exposed. He pointed to a white, slightly crinkled scar that ran down the dead man’s spinal column for several inches with suture marks on each side of it.
   “See that?” he asked. I nodded. “That’s from an operation of some sort,” Doc Sanderson said. “Spinal fusion, I’d say.”
   I asked,“What about it?”
   Doc said,“Just look at this.” He took an X-ray negative from the big envelope under his arm and pointed. “That’s what’s under the scar,” he said. “I took this X-ray of his back a few minutes ago. Just thought of it when we were talking about those hysterectomies.”
   I looked with a layman’s puzzled eyes at the vertebrae that the X-ray negative showed. “I don’t see anything,” I said.
   “Exactly!” he replied almost exultantly. “There’s nothing to see. That’s just the point! This man, John Smith or whoever he is, has an operation scar on his back, and under the scar there is absolutely no sign at all that the bones have ever been touched by a surgeon!”
   “Ah,” I said finally.“Now I get it, Doc. Thanks. This should do it for us.”
   And it did.
   First, we checked the general surgeons and neurosurgeons in Riverside, the only ones that might have done a back operation. There were only a handful altogether, as it turned out, and only one who had come to Riverside from another city and been practicing here for less than sixteen years.
   This was Dr. Jonas Ridley, a distinguished, civic-minded man, head of the surgical staff at Riverside Hospital, and a highly respected member of the American College of Surgeons.
   Next, we got John Smith, our man in the morgue, quickly identified from his photograph by two cousins and an aunt, in the southern city from which Dr. Jonas Ridley had moved to Riverside, as— yes — John Smith, their cousin and nephew respectively.
   And finally, to cap it all, the hospital to which Dr. Ridley had been attached there, found in its archives a record of a spinal fusion operation performed sixteen years before by Dr. Jonas Ridley on a patient named John Smith.
   So John Smith, it seemed pretty certain, had recently discovered, through a casual insurance physical examination perhaps, that he had paid Dr. Ridley seven hundred and fifty hard-earned dollars sixteen years ago to perform on him a back operation that hadn’t been necessary at all. And that Dr. Ridley had never, in fact, undertaken — except to make a surface incision.
   When I faced him with all this, Dr. Ridley stoutly maintained that he knew nothing whatever about anybody called John Smith, or about his murder.
   But the jury did not agree with him, for four good reasons. Reason one was that I found a flashlight behind the front seat of Dr. Ridley’s car that had demonstrably been used to bash in Smith’s head, since it still bore a few of his hairs and some spots of his blood on it.
   Reason two was that I found in the back seat of Dr. Ridley’s car a men’s-store label that had been cut from John Smith’s inside jacket pocket.
   Reason three was that Dr. Ridley could not satisfactorily account for his time on the night of the murder.
   And reason four was that old Doc Sanderson testified so persuasively about Dr. Ridley’s deliberate malpractice sixteen years before, as revealed by his X-ray of John Smith’s back.
   So we managed to convict Dr. Ridley, all right.
   But both Doc Sanderson and I were a little ashamed of ourselves for not seeing right away that John Smith’s note had really contained the whole truth of the case in just two simple words: ‘back payment.’
   Corpus Delicti
   by Talmage Powell
   Realizing the uselessness of further effort, Ralph Bradley, lately M. D., drew away from the girl. Full-length on the rickety table in the shabby room, she had hemorrhaged prodigiously. Now she was quite dead.
   Bradley stood looking at her with eyes that burned in the swarthy strip of flesh between white surgical cap and mask. He felt no guilt or remorse. She had come to him of her own free will. He’d required not even her name, only the two hundred dollars she’d extracted from her purse and passed to him with a trembling hand. She’d known what she was doing, the chance she was taking.
   Who else had known?
   The question lay scalpel-sharp in Bradley’s mind. Timid and guilt-ridden, she most probably had kept her condition secret from her family, if she had any. The man responsible, Bradley assumed, was either married and in circumstances legally beyond her reach, or a punk kid who’d run out on her.
   The man had rejected her, or she wouldn’t have reached the desperation that drove her to an abortion.
   There was a good chance she had come here without telling anyone. However—
   Oh yes, Bradley thought angrily, there is always a however— or a but — or an if—
   Someone was going to miss the thin, over-anxious girl with the mouse-tan hair. Someone would start looking. And it was possible her movements could be traced.
   Bradley despised the sight of her, of what she now represented. He turned away from her and went behind the dusty Japanese screen in the corner. His mind was busy while he stripped off his rubber gloves and smock.
   Consider the worst, he told himself. Project into a future in which a big, cynical detective knocks on the door. You open the door.“Yes?”
   He shows his credentials.“I want to talk to you. May I come in?”
   You shrug and stand aside for him to enter.“What can I do for you?”
   “I’m looking for a girl.” He calls her by name, a name you have honestly never heard before.
   “I don’t know her,” you say. “I’ve never heard the name before.”
   He describes her. Then:“She came here. We know she was coming here. We have traced her to your office.”
   “Your information is incomplete,” you say. “Such a girl never came here. Why should she?”
   “She was pregnant.”
   “Oh?”
   “She wanted an abortion.”
   You look at him coolly.“I resent the implication.”
   “I don’t care what you resent. I want to know where the girl is.”
   “And I have no idea. Look around. Satisfy yourself.”
   You are neither a help nor a hindrance as he goes through the apartment. Finally, he has completed the circuit, returned to the front door. There is frustration in his eyes.
   “You’re the same Ralph Bradley,” he says, “who was involved in the recent dope traffic scandal.”
   “Yes,” you say, “and my defense bankrupted me, ruined my reputation, and ended my career.”
   “I suspect you have a new career, doctor. Illegal medicine.”
   “Perhaps you suspect,” you say, “because I am convenient, easy to suspect. Because you haven’t the imagination or mental acuity to find out what happened to the girl. Maybe she decided to simply run away.”
   Then you close the door in his face. His suspicions constitute no threat— so long as he doesn’t have proof.
   And therein, Bradley thought as he scrubbed his hands at the screened basin, lies the biggestif that has arisen in my entire life. The proof lies dead on the table. The final scene will not go at all as I have imagined it— unless I get rid of the proof.
   A husky, almost handsome man, Bradley emerged from behind the screen, his eyes sweeping the crumpled sheet he had tossed over the girl.
   You are no small item to be rid of, he thought. Not a fingerprint that may be wiped away, or an incriminating note that can be burned. A thin sheen of sweat broke suddenly on his squarish, heavy face.
   Don’t consider failure and its consequences, he told himself. He struggled for an iron control over his emotions. He succeeded partially. But he remained too acutely aware of the danger he was in for comfort. His apartment occupied a second floor. The building teemed with people, and outside lay theimmensity of the city — thousands of more people.
   In his present circumstances, he hadn’t even a car left. If he managed to sneak the body out of the building, he would be no better off. One doesn’t travel far with the body of a dead girl over one’s shoulder.
   He crossed to the wooden chair where the girl had draped her things. Her purse lay on top of the folded skirt.
   Opening the purse, he began rummaging in it. It yielded a few loose bobby pins, a crumpled package of cigarettes, a compact, a slip of paper with his name on it.
   He paused long enough to stare at the paper. Then he crushed it in a small, tight wad and dropped it in his pocket, hating the girl intensely.
   In the bottom of the purse lay a single key and another slip of paper. His spirits lifted. The paper was a scrawled receipt for a month’s rent on apartment 214, 37 Dixon Street.
   He stuffed the key and receipt in his pocket and turned again toward the girl. He reflected for a moment. Then he crossed the room, opened the closet door, returned to the girl, and carried her to the cubicle.
   Back at the table, he stripped off the rubber under sheet, gathered up the blood-stained sponges, pads, and over-sheeting. He added her purse to the wad, rolling the whole tightly in the rubber sheeting. He tucked the bundle into the closet beside the girl, and then he locked the closet door.
   It was a wholly unsatisfactory hiding place, but it would have to do for the moment.

   Bradley lingered outside the Dixon street address as a couple emerged and strolled down the sidewalk. When the man and woman turned the corner, he gave the house a second look. It was an old brownstone, barely respectable, but not a slum.
   When he decided to move, he did so quickly, entering the vestibule and going rapidly up the stairs, the worn carpeting and heavy padding muffling his footsteps.
   The second floor hall was quiet. He stopped at the door of 214, placed his ear against the panel. He heard no sound in the apartment.
   He had the key in his hand. He inserted it in the lock. A bit of the metallic taste left the edges of his teeth. The key fitted.
   With the door closed behind him, the apartment was close, hot, and dark. The early evening glare of the city outlined the windows. He picked his way to them and pulled the blinds. Then he struck a match.
   On a nearby table was an old-fashioned lamp with a fringed shade. He risked clicking it on.
   The wan glow of the lamp revealed the shabbily furnished bed-sitting room of a cramped apartment. A worn plush sofa, club chair, and a TV set on a circular table occupied most of the room. Double doors in the inner walls marked a pair of pushed-up Murphy beds.
   The place was barren, almost as if no one lived here.
   Bradley looked about quickly. A narrow hallway opened off the sitting room. At the farther end of the hallway was a small kitchen. A cursory examination was all he needed to determine that he’d find nothing useful here. The ancient gas stove, refrigerator, and dinette set had been wiped clean. Dishes and pots were washed and stacked in the over-the-sink cabinet. Nothing more personal here than in the living room.
   He returned to the hallway, opening doors as he went He discovered a linen closet, an outsized old bathroom, and then a dressing room.
   That uncomfortable cold-hot sweat had returned. He did his best to ignore it as he turned on the overhead light and gave his attention to the dressing room.
   Covering the far end of the small room was a faded chintz curtain. He jerked it aside and saw that it comprised a wardrobe of sorts for dresses, coats, shoes.
   He let the curtain drop and turning, moved to the chest of drawers. It held blouses, folded underthings, and a dozen cellophane-wrapped inexpensive nylon stockings.
   Only the dressing table remained to be examined, and Bradley moved to it without real hope. The table was covered with jars, bottles, and boxes of cosmetics— a wide assortment, it seemed, for one girl. Perhaps her loneliness had given rise to a hunger for cosmetics, a way to change herself, as if she could hide momentarily from what she knew herself to be.
   The second small drawer he opened in the table contained writing materials, and a couple of cheap ballpoint pens that had been tossed in carelessly. He reached out and tumbled the stuff in the drawer. There were a few bills but no letters.
   Then as he was about to close the drawer, he noticed a folded sheet of paper with the imprint of writing showing through. When he opened the paper, an alertness began to rise in him. The note was terse and to the point:
   Dear Louse,
   I’ve decided not to carry out my threat. I know I couldn’t win, with all that money and connections stacked against me. I could ruin you, but you’re not worth it. Especially since I’d ruin myself in the bargain and mess up any chance I might have with a decent guy in the future.
   After that last scene with you, I know exactly how I stand. And not only me, but this condition that’s going to turn into a baby, if given time. You don’t want it. You won’t claim it. And I don’t see how I can give it any kind of chance.
   It isn’t a baby yet. It’s not anything — not yet. That’s the way I’ve got it figured out, and the best thing I can see is to wipe the slate clean, forget you exist, and start out fresh with a few less stars in my eyes.
   I just wanted you to know the thing isn’t getting me down, not a bit. Who is Darrell Caraway? A worm, that’s all. Just a worm.
   With all bad wishes.Julia
   Bradley recognized the heartbreak and tragedy that lay unspoken in the letter, behind the letter. He experienced no feeling of sympathy or compassion. Such feelings had never found much of a welcome in him, and at this moment his own danger overshadowed everything else.
   As he left the apartment, he wondered fleetingly how she had happened to meet Darrell Caraway. Well, it really didn’t matter. Perhaps she had worked someplace where he had dropped in. Or maybe he’d deliberately gone slumming one evening and picked her up.
   To Bradley, the important thing was that he had identified the principals in his problem. Fortunately— and this greatly simplified the problem — one of them carried an old and highly respectable name in the local social and financial registers.
   Back in his apartment, telephone in hand, Bradley realized the tremendous chance he was taking. He hesitated before dialing. Then he reminded himself of the character of the man with whom he would deal, a man capable of very little decency, honesty, or integrity. Darrell Caraway’s character was revealed in his relationship and treatment of the deceased girl.
   Decisively, Bradley dialed. A servant answered the phone at the Caraway residence. He could hear someone singing and there were other background sounds that made him almost sure that a party was in progress.
   “Mr. Caraway, please,” Bradley said. “Mr. Darrell Caraway.”
   “Who is calling?”
   “Just tell him it’s — Julia’s uncle.”
   Caraway’s guarded tones sounded on the phone a few moments later. “Listen, I don’t understand this. I believe you’ve got the wrong—”
   “Relax, Mr. Caraway. I’m no out-of-town relative riding a white charger.”
   “Then what—”
   “My name is Bradley. I have a business matter to discuss with you. If you’re wise, you’ll take what I’m saying seriously.
   “Why should I? I don’t know you.”
   “We can remedy that quickly enough. I’m trying to help you, really. So drop over to my place and be helped, Mr. Caraway.” Bradley added his address and waited while the line hummed.
   “I have nothing to say to you,” Caraway said finally.
   “Oh, stop trying to be circumspect,” Bradley said with irritation. “I’ll give you thirty minutes to come to my apartment — unless you want everything exposed. I don’t think I can be any clearer, can I?”
   He hung up.
   Darrell Caraway beat the thirty minute deadline by a full eight minutes. This, Bradley reflected, was a heartening confirmation of his assessment of the man. Caraway had the courage of a rabbit, when not dealing with a pregnant girl who was a nobody.
   His inspection of Caraway was closer than it seemed when he opened the door at Caraway’s knock. The Caraway heir was young, in his early twenties, and almost good-looking, with chiseled features and dark, crinkly hair.
   But there were lines of dissipation etched into his face and his cheeks had the unhealthy pallor of a man who has kept late hours for many nights in succession. His dark eyes were petulant and frightened. At thirty-five or forty he would be a physical wreck, an old man. Bradley’s practiced medical eye saw the incipient signs.
   Caraway entered the living room of the shabby apartment with a certain disdain, his eyes noting the furnishings.
   “Don’t think I came here out of fright, Bradley.”
   “Oh, of course not,” Bradley said.
   “I came simply because this girl you mentioned — Julia — tried to blackmail me.”
   “Really?”
   “Really. Just who are you, anyway?”
   “A doctor.”
   Caraway’s lip twitched. “Whatever she has told you is a lie. I had it out with her. She can prove nothing. I’ll fight it through every court in the land, rather than be saddled with a tramp who—”
   “Calm down, Caraway. I don’t bluff so easily as Julia. And I’m not so stupid. You are in a real jam, a real scandal, and I know you’d go to any lengths to get out of it.”
   “If this is an attempt at extortion—”
   “Oh, shut up,” Bradley said with contempt. “I’ve entered no conspiracy with Julia. As a matter of fact, I’m only intent on helping you.”
   “Helping me? Why?”
   “In order to help myself.”
   “I don’t think I understand, Bradley.”
   “You will,” Bradley said. “You know, you’re never going to feel comfortable as long as Julia is around. You’ll not know from one day to the next what is going through her mind, when she may decide the child needs a father. Not a very pleasant future outlook, is it?”
   “What are you suggesting?” Caraway said thinly.
   “That it would be worth a small effort on your part to insure your future. You see, Julia staggered in here tonight. She was in great pain. She’d sought out a one-time nurse to perform an abortion. The job was done in a back room near here where the nurse left Julia. It wasn’t a very good job, Caraway.”
   Staring at him, Caraway looked hypnotized.
   “Of course,” Bradley said, “I did the best I could for the girl. It was too late. She began to hemorrhage.”
   Caraway swallowed with a gulping effort.“She is— You mean she—”
   “I’m afraid so. I really hadn’t time to save her.”
   “Where is she?”
   “She’s here now. I have several rooms in back.”
   “And you haven’t notified—”
   “No one but you,” Bradley assured him. “Recently, I had an unfortunate brush with the authorities. It’s very likely they’d say that no ex-nurse existed, that I’d done the abortion myself. This would be poor and undeserved payment for my efforts to save the girl, don’t you think?”
   Caraway appeared to suffer momentary vertigo.“What... what are you suggesting?”
   “I want the girl got out of here,” Bradley said. “For that, I need your assistance. You have cars, boats, city houses, and country houses. With your help, I’ll see that Julia is laid to rest, permanently.”
   Caraway stumbled to a chair and sat down.“It’s out of the question!”
   “Anything else is out of the question,” Bradley amended. “After all, you’re responsible for her being here. It’s only fair to consider the great service I’m offering you.”
   Caraway shook his head back and forth.“No! No—”
   Bradley crossed the room, grabbed Caraway by the hair, and jerked his head back.
   “I don’t intend to discuss this at any length with you, Caraway. I’ll simply point out that if anything happens to me, it will also happen to you. Everything you’ve feared will be made public. And more, my friend. Very much more. If I’m charged with abortion, I’ll swear you arranged it,and that your money paid for it. You brought Julia here. Is that clear?”
   Bradley thought for a moment Caraway was going to faint. Then Caraway said,“You can’t prove a word of what you’re saying—”
   “You want to run the risk?” Bradley shoved him roughly back in the chair. “You’ll surely take the risk, if anything happens to me. If you try to shirk a share of your responsibility—”
   Caraway closed his eyes for an instant, too shaken to keep up even a pretense of angry defiance.“How will we manage it?” he whispered. All the blood had drained from his face.
   “I was hoping you’d have a suggestion.” Bradley said. “Efficiency is often coupled with simplicity. And the simplest thing, I think, would be for you to bring a car around. We’ll slip her out of here, take her to your country place, and bury her deep in a little glen where she will never be discovered.”
   “How do I know I will have seen the last of you?” Caraway asked.
   “You’ve no worries on that score,” Bradley said. “Neither of us has. The silence of each will be his own insurance, and in that fact lies insurance for the other.”
   “I... I don’t like to think about it,” Caraway said faintly.
   Bradley took him by the arm and helped him to his feet.“Come on. I have some pills in back. I’ll give you a couple.”
   He guided Caraway through the gloomy hallway, to the room where the girl had died.
   From a cabinet, Bradley took a small bottle. He spilled a couple of pills in Caraway’s sweaty palm, and Caraway quickly swallowed them.
   “You’ll feel better almost instantly,” Bradley said. “And by tomorrow you’ll have the comfort of knowing everything is behind you for good. She’ll never bother you again.”
   Bradley slapped him on the shoulder. His spirits were rising.“Next time, Caraway, use a little more discretion. An easy conquest, I suppose.”
   “Uh... oh, yes — easy enough. I picked her up the first time in a cocktail lounge where she was a barmaid.”
   “She hardly seemed your type,” Bradley said, “with the skinny frame and mouse-tan hair.”
   Something happened suddenly to Caraway’s face. He sprang toward Bradley. “What did you say?”
   “Well, with your money—” Bradley shrugged. “But I suppose a plain jane was diverting for a change.” He was bewildered and a little frightened by the sudden change in Caraway’s attitude.
   “Skinny — mouse-tan hair,” Caraway said. A laugh came from his throat like a hacking cough. “Bradley, you’re not describing Julia. Julia has jet black hair, a small mole near the corner of her mouth like a beauty mark, a face like a movie starlet. Bradley I’m afraid you’ve described Julia’s room-mate, a girl named Madeen.”
   Bradley stood as dumb as a sloth for a moment, his thoughts going back to the girl’s apartment, the two Murphy beds, the quantity of clothing behind the chintz curtain, the amount of cosmetics on the dressing table.
   He heard Caraway saying:“So it isn’t my responsibility, after all, is it?”
   “Two of them—” Bradley said emptily.
   “Of course,” Caraway said. “It isn’t as coincidental as it seems on the surface. Birds of a feather, you know. Madeen and Julia had known each other for some time. When they found they shared the same condition, they took the apartment together. They provided a certain comfort for each other, I’m sure. And more practically it cut their living costs considerably.”
   Bradley sat down in a chipped metal examination chair and put his face in his hands. He’d always prided himself on the steel quality of his nerves, but even steel has a breaking point.
   Caraway eased toward the door.
   Bradley looked up.“Where are you going?”
   “Home. I’ll forget that you exist, Bradley. Without Julia, you have no real hold on me. But because of Julia, I have none on you. I can’t very well report you to the police, can I? Not without revealing why I came here, the whole story.”
   Bradley made no move to stop him as Caraway left the apartment. Caraway had pegged the situation accurately.
   Bradley sat in glum silence for several minutes, his gaze on the closet door behind which the girl Madeen lay.
   Finally, Bradley pushed himself out of the chair.
   The apartment on Dixon Street showed lights when Bradley arrived. Taking a deep breath, he mounted the front steps, crossed the vestibule, and went upstairs.
   He knocked lightly on the door of 214. It opened quickly framing an attractive girl with jet black hair. Bradley noticed the small mole near the corner of her mouth.
   Bradley’s face wreathed in a friendly, benign smile. “You must be Julia.”
   The girl nodded, and Bradley said,“Madeen asked me to drop over.”
   “Where is she?”
   “At my place.”
   Bradley entered, and she closed the door and leaned against it.
   “Are you—” she said. “I mean—”
   “I’m a doctor,” Bradley said.
   “Is Madeen—”
   “Completely comfortable.”
   Julia moved from the door with hesitance and sadness coming to her face.“Then she really meant it. She said she was going to—”
   “You mustn’t judge her, my dear.”
   “Judge her?” Julia said with a harsh little laugh. “I might have done the same thing myself. I don’t know. I’ll never know I guess. I thought I—”
   “Was in the same condition?”
   “Well, yes. But it proved finally to be a false alarm.”
   “Unfortunately, Madeen experienced no false alarms. She did what she thought was best — and she assures me of your discretion, as she has mine.”
   “In any event it’s over now, isn’t it?”
   “Yes, it is,” Bradley said, “and now I have taken the risk of coming here to tell you Madeen needs you.”
   “You said she was comfortable.”
   “I was speaking of the purely physical, my dear. In the psychological realm we have another situation. Tomorrow she’ll feel better. But right now, she is experiencing a rather terrible kind of aloneness.”
   Compassion flooded Julia’s eyes. “I’ll get my coat,” she said.
   “My place isn’t far,” Bradley told her, “We’ll walk over — and you’ll have the opportunity to get your thoughts in order.”
   When they entered his dark apartment, Bradley was fleetingly grateful to Julia for not having told Caraway the truth she had discovered so recently about her condition. The truth that had caused her to refrain from mailing that final letter to him.
   I’m glad he ceased to exist so far as you were concerned, my dear, Bradley thought. I wonder how quickly he’ll tire in the digging of a double grave.
   Before he turned on the light, he let the scalpel slip from his coatsleeve into his steel-steady hand.

Взято из Флибусты, http://flibusta.net/b/654831
