
   Nova 4
   edited by Harry Harrison
   A MANOR BOOK.....1975
   Manor Books Inc.
   432 Park Avenue South
   New York, New York 10016
   Library of Congress Catalog Card Number:74-79212
   Copyright,©, 1974, by Harry Harrison.
   All rights reserved.
   Published by arrangement with Walker Publishing
   Company, Inc. Printed in the U.S.A.

   BRIAN W. ALDISS
   The monsters or Ingratitude IV

   The nice thing about Brian Aldiss is that he never rests on his laurels. He is always pushing forward, tantalizing and satisfying the readers who, naturally, lust for more. This story is the first to be published in a connected series that he is now writing. The background for all the stories is the mad states of mind that might be regarded as normal in the future, where living on Earth has become so expensive that many people, including the most creative, have been forced out to the artificial worlds that circle the Earth in orbits set 180 degrees to the plane of the ecliptic. Only Aldiss could make that statement and handle this fascinating material!

   The day was so beautiful that I left the teleceptual studios during the lunch hour and walked along Terrazza Terrace. One delight about being on Ingratitude, of all the Zodiacal Planets, was that the Shield was faulty, giving superb solar distortions. Tourists came from parsecs around just to see the effect of supersonic peacocks plunging in and out of the sun, like javelins growing foliage before they burst into fire.
   There on the terrace I turned suddenly and saw a man who stared at me through kookaburra glasses before coming forward and extending his hand. I recognized him by his handprint. "Lurido Ponds!" I said, "after all these years!" Where had I seen him last?
   "Hazelgard Nef, incarnate and aglow . . . How are you, Nef?"
   "In a state of rapture, dear boy. Let's have a nostril of striped aframosta, shall we?"
   I sensed immediately that Ponds was going to be important to me; the wiring in the ulna of my left arm was signaling. As we sat down in the nearest afrohale bar, I tried him out with some trivial conversation. "I suppose you've heard about the new cult spreading through the Zodiacals? It claims that human beings are merely corpses, or revenants of foetuses, that what we think of as unborn children are in fact the dominant and adult stage of the human life cycle, and that what we have always called life is actually an Afterlife."
   "What's the name of this cult?"
   "I forget. Their leader calls himself Mister Queen Elizabeth."
   "I don't doubt it. It has a sort of inevitability about it."
   "Wombud, it's calied. Wombud. And what are you doing in this phase of your Afterlife?" I still could not recall when we had last met.
   As we sat and sniffed and watched the lovely lacerating peacocks overhead, Ponds told me about the clinic he was running with the aid of a man called Karmon. Since Experimental Experience had caught on, people ran through psychotic phases very much faster than ever before, sometimes in a matter of hours or even minutes. The Ponds-Karmon clinic catered for these dramatic and often terrifying occasions. The name of the clinic was vaguely familiar to me.
   "I may have to call on you myself."
   "You said you were in a state of rapture."
   "Look, here we sit, Lurido, our limbs disposed as we will. We talk, we communicate, our senses flow likesilentwater and our nails grow. We experience sound and sight and touch. Isn't that rapture? Is anything more harmonious than being yourself? Also I have a lovely wife at home, sweet of breath and nature. But still I'm being driven mad."
   I told him how I'd come to Ingratitude IV to set up my studio and escape the colossal rentals charged in the cities of Earth. But my theories of painting were not popular and I had been forced into designing sets for telecepts. Currently—there seemed no point in withholding the news from Ponds—we were involved in making a musical version of Wittgenstein's "Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus".
   "What are you going to call it?"
   "We're thinking of calling it 'Wittgenstein's Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus'. It has novelty. Or maybe just 'Stein-track'."
   " 'Startrek'?"
   " 'Steintrack'. No doubt that sort of thing is much too frivolous for you. You were always an intellectual."
   "I enjoy telecepts when they are complex, as I'm sure yours will be. They become something like waking dreams, which can transport you to a different level of reality. The entire spiritual history of this century has lain in the pioneering of new LORs. That's the line of mental health in which I specialize."
   I remembered then something he had said to me years back, before my marriage, about the colonization of cislunar space so expanding mental horizons that mankind had propelled itself into an age of neocortical evolution. Such talk always depressed me; besides which, Ponds had been better at getting girls than I had.
   Something of my thought evidently got through to him, for he said, "You okay? Coordination rating down?"
   "No, dear boy. Just a touch of ecliptic allergy."
   We parted. He headed back to his clinic. As he went, I noticed for the first time a monstrous thing rolling and sprawling after him, moaning as it moved and dragging its genitals along the ziberline mothproof grass.
   I went back to the studios, sneezing. Something throbbed under my zygomatic arch.
   My wife awaited me that evening when I staggered home, exhausted by the nonsense of 'Steintrack'. Millimeter music was playing and she had on an entire frontal. We embraced passionately, matching respiratory rates and interlocking toes.
   "Teresa, my darling!"
   "Ally, my love!"
   We fled together into the amniotic room, floated in the semidark, swallowed the fiber-lights, eagerly chased down into each other's digestive systems, rating the fizzy bacterial jazz of the upper intestine with the somber melody of peristalsis. In rapture through the Y-rays I saw the rare rose of an ovary on the great labyrinthine shores of her circulatory epithelia raise its homoblastic head in bud, felt the event celebrated in a minute eustatic movement of hormones through every uterine dell and declivity.
   Oh, the divine delight of that decrustating decubitus!
   Later, we dressed; as I made my way to the sun room, I came across my son Chin Ping, flat out with a flickerbook.
   "Lazing here again! Why don't you get some exercise, play with other boys, do something instead of just hanging about?"
   "You say I'm rotten at games."
   "That doesn't stop you playing them, does it? You might get a little better at them if you played more often."
   "Equally I might get better at them if you didn't keep telling me I was no good at them."
   "Youareno good at them. The truth never hurt anybody."
   "Don't give me that old uni-level crap, Pop. Truth's just the salt at the banquet, not the whole feast."
   I began jumping slowly up and down. "Aphorisms in an eight-year-old I will not stand!"
   "I make your life a misery, don't I? And I'm glad, because you make mine a misery. Do you know why lizards and reptiles remain so still? It's because they don't have what are called saccidic eye moverpents; so, when they become stationary, they adapt visually and their environment becomes uniformly gray. You must be all saccidic eye movement, Pop, because you're never bloody stationary and your environment is a permanent puce!"
   "You little permanent puke!"
   "Witty!"
   "Repartee you might dig in your dumb child mind!" I snatched up his flickerbook and found it was Theodor Reik'sThe Unknown Murderer,with the paragraph showing about crocodiles eating people in Madagascar, where nobody believes in natural death, and the formula of condolence to a dead man's family is "Cursed be the magician who killed him!"
   I switched the current off and flung the book at him, catching him just under his left eye.
   "You stole this from my library, you little swine! Why are you reading such fantasy? Reality's too big for you, I suppose?"
   "No, it's not big enough," he screamed. "It's just a rotten cage! There should be laws against reality."
   He ran screaming to his mother, clutching his face. I stopped to retrieve the book, noticing there was blood on one corner. As I did so, something snapped in my back. I could not move, could not straighten up, could not sit down, could not kneel, could not cry out.
   Teresa entered the room, saying in her gentle voice, "Ally, stand up, please, because you and I and little Chin Ping are going to see a friend of mine."
   "Mmmmurrrr. . ." By pressing the small of my back with two fingers, I caused the pain to lessen and was able to straighten up. Immediately, I was myself again.
   "I must tell you about the fun we had with 'Steintrack' today, Teresa. They have a new girl in to rewrite a lot of the lyrics, and she is first class."
   She took my arm, leading me toward the sub-station, saying as she did so, "I remember when I was composing a choral—"
   "Remember, remember! Christ, is that all the human race ever does? Why not forget for a change, or doesn't neocortical evolution stretch that far? What about the future? Doesn't that excite your intellectual curiosity just one tiny bit?"
   She burst out laughing and I remembered that she had been fond of greyhounds before I knew her. Chin Ping came running to her side, his cheek badly inflamed, and hid his face in her dress.
   "What did you do to your cheek?" I asked him.
   He would not answer. Then you wonder why fathers get angry with sons.
   We climbed into the first car that came; Teresa punched buttons and we dived into the heart of the urbstak. Somewhere a voice was calling.
   "I'm worried about 'Steintrack', love," I confided, smacking Chin Ping across the head. "Perhaps the trouble is that it's not complex enough. I enjoy telecepts when they're complex, as I'm sure you know. They become something like waking dreams, which can transport you to a different level of reality. After all, the entire spiritual history of this century has lain in the pioneering of new LORs, compatible with the expanding horizons of neocortical evolution."
   "That's what rethinking courses are for," she said vaguely. "You worry too much, Ally. Maybe we should move to Self-Indulgence VI—I've heard it's fun."
   "It's the boy's future that bothers me."
   We stopped at an intersection station high on the outer face. As we climbed out, a sign lit nearby and a glass door swung open. The sign said, in letters of self-assertive discretion:
   Ponds-Karmon ClinicAccelerative Psychoses
   "Hey!" I said.
   "We have an appointment," Teresa said to a sweetly fragrant receptionist who met us in the foyer. She removed our masks and frontals.
   In short time, we found ourselves confronting a slight man in a stiff suit of silver, who introduced himself as Aldo Karmon. His main eccentricity was, as he explained, that he was a fringillidaephile; cardinals fluttered round the room as he spoke, followed by buntings and greenfinches. As we were admiring them, Lurido Ponds entered the room by another door and nodded familiarly at me.
   "Hope you didn't mind my following you this morning," he said.
   After him crawled a strange creature, which I could hardly believe to be human, so grotesquely did it drag itself over the carpet, groaning as it came. Its eyes were blurred pools of phlegm. Teresa backed away from it in horror, but Chin Ping ran forward in delight and went down on his hands and knees to it, as if the monster had been a puppy.
   "That's right! We shall have Geoffrey cured in no time," Ponds said. "He likes a friendly reception. There's never a cure without love, even in phase-schizophrenia."
   I ran angrily across to my son, bending to grasp his collar and drag him away from the creature. My back snapped. I found myself stuck where I was, unable to stand erect again, unable to sit or kneel. A finch settled on my left ear.
   My vision seemed to be going. As I toppled forward on to the monster, who made gestures of terror at my approach, I was able to see that the finch was in fact a woodpecker, and that its beak was digging cleverly into my ear, bringing out huge ripe maggots, which it gobbled. Its claws were sinking into my shoulder, pulling away loads of fluff and fur. Farther down the tree, a weaver bird was knitting thefurand fluff into a protective blanket. I fell into the blanket, but it gave way and I plunged into the undergrowth below, landing painfully on a shingley strip of beach.
   Only the mewling cries beside me forced me to retain my senses, Still sprawling, I saw a baby seal rolling about beside me/fat and white and weepy-eyed. I struck out at it, trying to blind it, but at that moment an angry bark made me pause. Heaving herself out of the waves, all anger and open mouth, was a mother seal. I saw the salty drops of water on her whiskers and recognized Teresa. I tried to call her but could not, for the waves were reaching me.
   They were waves of an unknown sea. They were not of water nor of flesh. They were of a substance like jellied flesh, a flesh that had not properly formed. Each wave, as it crawled to overwhelm me, took the shape of ferns, deformed fingers, organs of an outre anatomy, all obeying biochemistries untold.
   In fighting to get away from them, I fell over white dead things on the beach, and the waves were upon me. My skin experienced scalding sensations. My ulna was picking up signals from Cygnus 61. Even as I fought with the wave-things my own flesh and blood were churning in metamorphosis—in them I was drowning, not in the waves, as my identity slipped down and down into blue depths of disorder, overwhelmed by acrocyanosis and the agar-agars of an extreme anguish.
   Yet in the intensity of those fevered fathoms was a womblike impetus that drew together again all that had become dissolved. The separate elements of me remarried and became a working entity, even as the tides that had taken me left me, retching but renewed.
   "Two minutes, fifty seconds flat!" said Karmon, pocketing a stopwatch and jotting a note genially on a pad. "Something of a record in the way of accelerative psychoses. Congratulations, Hazelgard, how do you feel?"
   The unknown psychic sea had gone; Cygnus had rung off.
   "My back feels great—Geoffrey looks better too," I said. My breakdown had triggered the monster through his crisis; he looked human again. I picked myself up from the floor and embraced Teresa and Chin Ping, kissing his bruised face. He smiled at me, all open and beautiful.
   "Can we have a crocodile for a pet, Dad?"
   I cupped his chin in my hand.
   "The Afterlife is hard for you, son. You're only eight years past your death. But we shall slowly educate you to remember the timeless months of your real existence, experiencing the universe of life in your mother's womb. Do not despair—every year, we understand more of our mysteries."
   Lurido Ponds said genially, "You sound so convinced about Wombud that you almost convince me, Mister Queen Elizabeth. It'll be interesting to see which of the two sides of your life eventually stabilize."
   Teresa said, smiling, "You're a hell of a strain to live with as you are, darling, but I wouldn't change a thing. The more alternatives we can generate, the better. If only I could help more in your non-Wombud incarnation . . ."
   "Everything's fine," I said, "and I'm hungry—aren't you, Chin Ping? Eat, then meet my disciples."
   He began jumping slowly up and down.
   I went over and shook Karmon and Pond's hands; then I adjusted my nose-mask.
   "Goodbye, Hazelgard. See you tomorrow as usual," Ponds said.
   As I left with Chin Ping, Teresa was beginning to go into her psychotic breakdown. Another hour, and her renewed personality would be writing some more 'Steintrack' songs for us.
   Outside, overhead, high above the urbstak, diatoms and divers peacocks phantasmally nested in the sun itself. I sneezed. Something throbbed under my zygomaticarch.

   KIT REED
   Songs of War

   No one can accuse Kit Reed of being antifem-lib—or antifeminine. As wife, mother and author she has quietly succeeded in doing what others are just talking about. Now, with sweet piercing wit, she has used the medium of the science fiction story to write the definitive story of the feminine liberation movement. Or has she? . . .

   For some weeks nowafire had burned day and night on a hillside just beyond the town limits; standing at her kitchen sink, Sally Hall could see the smoke rising over the trees. It curled upward in promise, but she could not be sure what it promised, and despite the fact that she was contented with her work and her family, Sally found herself stirred by the bright autumn air, the smoke emblem.
   Nobody seemed to want to talk much about the fire, or what it meant. Her husband, Zack, passed it off with a shrug, saying it was probably just another commune. June Goodall, her neighbor, said it was coming from Ellen Ferguson's place; she owned the land and it was her business what she did with it. Sally said what if she had been taken prisoner. Vic Goodall said nottobe ridiculous, if Ellen Ferguson wanted those people off her place, all she had to do was call the police and get them off, and in the meantime, it was nobody's business.
   Still there was something commanding about the presence of the fire; the smoke rose steadily and could be seen for miles, and Sally, working at her drawing board, and a number of other women, going about their daily business, found themselves yearning^after the smoke column with complex feelings. Some may have been recalling a primal past in which men conked large animals and dragged them into camp, and the only housework involved was a little gutting before they roasted the bloody chunks over the fire. The grease used to sink into the dirt and afterward the diners, smeared with blood and fat, would roll around in a happy tangle. Other women were stirred by all the adventure tales they had stored up from childhood; people would run away without even bothering to pack or leave a note, they always found food one way or another and they met new friends in the woods. Together they would tell stories over a campfire, and when they had eaten they would walk away from the bones to some high excitement that had nothing to do with the business of living from day to day. A few women, thinking of Castro and his happy guerrilla band, in the carefree, glamorous days before he came to power, were closer to the truth. Thinking wistfully of campfire camaraderie, of everybody marching together in a common cause, they were already dreaming of revolution.
   Despite the haircut and the cheap suit supplied by the Acme Vacuum Cleaner company, Andy Ellis was an under-achiever college dropout who could care less about vacuum cleaners. Until this week he had been a beautiful, carefree kid, and now, with a dying mother to support, with the wraiths of unpaid bills and unsold Marvelvacs trailing behind him like Marley's chains, he was still beautiful, which is why the women opened their doors to him.
   He was supposed to say, "Good morning, I'm from the Acme Vacuum Cleaner Company and I'm here to clean your living room, no obligation, absolutely free of charge." Then, with the room clean and the Marvelsweep with twenty attachments and ten optional features spread all over the rug, he was supposed to make his pitch.
   The first woman he called on said he did good work but her husband would have to decide, so Andy sighed and began collecting the Flutesnoot, the Miracle Whoosher and all the other attachments and putting them back into the patented Bomb Bay Door.
   "Well thanks anyway ..."
   "Oh, thankyou,"she said. He was astounded to discover that she was unbuttoning him here and there.
   "Does this mean you want the vacuum after all?"
   She covered him with hungry kisses. "Shut up and deal."
   At the next house, he began again. "Good morning, I'm from the Acme Vacuum Cleaner company . . ."
   "Never mind that. Come in."
   At the third house, he and the lady of the house grappled in the midst of her unfinished novel, rolling here and there between the unfinished tapestry and the unfinished wire sculpture.
   "If he would let me alone for a minute I would get some of these things done," she said. "All he ever thinks about is sex."
   "If you don't like it, why are we doing this?"
   "To get even," she said.
   On his second day as a vacuum cleaner salesman, Andy changed his approach. Instead of going into his pitch, he would say, "Want to screw?" By the third day he had refined it to, "My place or yours?"
   Friday his mother died so he was able to turn in his Marvelvac, which he thought was just as well, because he was exhausted and depressed, and, for all his efforts, he had made only one tentative sale, which was contingent upon his picking up the payments in person every week for the next twelve years. Standing over his mother's coffin, he could not for the life of him understand what had happened to women—not good old Mom, who had more or less liked her family and at any rate had died uncomplaining—but the others, all the women in every condition in all the houses he had gone tothisweek. Why weren't any of them happy?
   Up in the hills, sitting around the fire, the women in the vanguard were talking about just that: the vagaries of life, and woman's condition. They had to think it was only that. If they were going to go on, they would have to be able to decide the problem was X, whatever X was. It had to be something they could name, so that, together, they could do something about it.
   They were of a mind to free themselves. One of the things was to free themselves of the necessity of being thought of as sexual objects, which turned out to mean only that certain obvious concessions, like lipstick and pretty clothes, had by ukase been done away with. Still, there were those who wore their khakis and bandoliers with a difference. Whether or not they shaved their legs and armpits, whether or not they smelled, the pretty ones were still pretty and the others were not; the ones with good bodies walked in an unconscious pride and the others tried to ignore the differences and settled into their flesh, saying: Now, we are all equal.
   There were great disputes as to what they were going to do, and which things they would do first. It was fairly well agreed that although the law said that they were equal, nothing much was changed. There was still the monthly bleeding; Dr. Ora Fessenden, the noted gynecologist, had showed them a trick which was supposed to take care of all that, but nothing short of surgery or menopause would halt the process altogether; what man had to undergo such indignities? There was still pregnancy, but the women all agreed they were on top of that problem. That left the rest: men still looked down on them, in part because in the main, women were shorter; they were more or less free to pursue their careers, assuming they could keep a baby-sitter, but there were still midafternoon depressions, dishes, the wash; despite all the changes, life was much the same. More drastic action was needed.
   They decided to form an army.
   At the time, nobody was agreed on what they were going to do or how they would go about it, but they were all agreed that it was time for a change. Things could not go on as they were; life was often boring, and too hard.
   She wrote a note:

   Dear Ralph,
   I am running away to realize my full potential. I know you have always said I could do anything I want but what you meant was, I could do anything as long as it didn't mess you up, which is not exactly the same thing now, is it? Don't bother to look for me.
   No longer yours,
   Lory.

   Then she went to join the women in the hills.

   I would like to go,Suellen thought,but what if they wouldn't let me have my baby?
   Jolene's uncle in the country always had a liver-colored setter named Fido. The name remained the same and the dogs were more or less interchangeable. Jolene called all her lovers Mike, and because they were more or less interchangeable, eventually she tired of them and went to join the women in the hills.
   "You're not going," Herb Chandler said. Annie said, "I am."
   He grabbed her as she reached the door. "The hell you are, I need you."
   "You don't need me, you need a maid." She slapped the side of his head. "Now let me go."
   "You're mine," he said, aiming a karate chop at her neck. She wriggled and he missed.
   "Just like your ox and your ass, huh." She had gotten hold of a lamp and she let him have it on top of the head.
   "Ow," he said, and crumpled to the floor.
   "Nobody owns me," she said, throwing the vase of flowers she kept on the side table, just for good measure. "I'll be back when it's over." Stepping over him, she went out the door.

   After everybody left that morning, June mooned around the living room, picking up the scattered newspapers, collecting her and Vic's empty coffee cups and marching out to face the kitchen table, which looked the same way every morning at this time, glossy with spilled milk and clotted cereal, which meant that she had to go through the same motions every morning at this time, feeling more and more like that jerk, whatever his name was, who for eternity kept on pushing the same recalcitrant stone up the hill; he was never going to get it to the top because it kept falling back on him and she was never going to get to the top, wherever that was, because there would always be the kitchen table, and the wash, and the crumbs on the rug, and besides she didn't know where the top was because she had gotten married right after Sweetbriar and the next minute, bang, there was the kitchen table and, give or take a few babies, give or take a few stabs at night classes in something or other, that seemed to be her life. There it was in the morning, there it was again at noon, there it was at night; when people said, at parties, "What do you do?" she could only move her hands helplessly because there was no answer she could give that would please either herself or them. I clean the kitchen table,she thought, because there was no other way to describe it. Occasionally she thought about running away, but where would she go, and how would she live? Besides, she would miss Vic and the kids and her favorite chair in the television room. Sometimes she thought she might grab the milkman or the next delivery boy, but she knew she would be too embarrassed, either that or she would start laughing, or the delivery boy would, and even if they didn't, she would never be able to face Vic. She thought she had begun to disappear, like the television or the washing machine; after a while nobody would see her at all. They might complain if she wasn't working properly, but in the main she was just another household appliance, and so she mooned, wondering if this was all there was ever going to be: herself in the house, the kitchen table.
   Then the notice came.
   JOIN NOW
   It was in the morning mail, hastily mimeographed and addressed to her by name. If she had been in a different mood she might have tossed it out with the rest of the junk mail, or called a few of her friends to see if they had gotten it too. As it was, she read it through, chewing over certain catchy phrases in this call to arms, surprised to find her blood quickening. Then she packed and wrote her note:

   Dear Vic,
   There are clean sheets on all the beds and three casseroles in the freezer and one in the oven. The veal one should do for two meals. I have done all the wash and a thorough vacuuming. If Sandy's cough doesn't get any better you should take him in to see Dr. Weixelbaum, and don't forget Jimmy is supposed to have his braces tightened on the 12th. Don't look for me.
   Love, June

   Then she went to join the women in the hills.

   Glenda Thompson taught psychology at the university; it was the semester break and she thought she might go to the women's encampment in an open spirit of inquiry. If she liked what they were doing she might chuck Richard, who was only an instructor while she was an assistant professor, and join them. To keep the appearance of objectivity, she would take notes.
   Of course she was going to have to figure out what to do with the children while she was gone. No matter how many hours she and Richard taught, the children were her responsibility, and if they were both working in the house, she had to leave her typewriter and shush the children because of the way Richard got when he was disturbed. None of the sitters she called could come; Mrs. Birdsall, their regular sitter, had taken off without notice again, to see her son the freshman in Miami, and she exhausted the list of student sitters without any luck. She thought briefly of leaving them at Richard's office, but she couldn't trust him to remember them at the end of the day. She reflected bitterly that men who wanted to work just got up and went to the office. It had never seemed fair.
   "Oh hell," she said finally, and because it was easier, she packed Tommy and Bobby and took them along.
   Marva and Patsy and Betts were sitting around in Marva's room; it was two days before the junior prom and not one of them had a date, or even a nibble; there weren't even any blind dates to be had.
   "I know what let's do," Marva said, "let's go up to Ferguson's and join the women's army."
   Betts said, "I didn't know they had anarmy!"
   "Nobody knows what they have up there," Patsy said.
   They left a note so Marva's mother would be sure and call them in case somebody asked for a date at the last minute and they got invited to the prom after all.
   Sally felt a twinge of guilt when she opened the flier:
   JOIN NOW
   After she read it she went to the window and looked at the smoke column in open disappointment:Oh, so that's all it is.Yearning after it in the early autumn twilight, she had thought it might represent something more: excitement, escape, but she supposed she should have guessed. There was no great getaway, just a bunch of people who needed more people to help. She knew she probably ought to go up and help but for a while, she could design posters and ads they could never afford if they went to a regular graphics studio. Still, all those women . . . She couldn't bring herself to make the first move.
   "I'm not a joiner," she said aloud, but that wasn't really it; she had always worked at home, her studio took up one wing of the house and she made her own hours; when she tired of working she could pick at the breakfast dishes or take a nap on the lumpy couch at one end of the studio; when the kids came home she was always there and besides, she didn't like going places without Zack.
   Instead she used the flier to test her colors, dabbing blues here, greens there, until she had more or less forgotten the message and all the mimeographing was obscured by color.
   At the camp, Dr. Ora Fessenden was leading an indoctrination program for new recruits. She herself was in the stirrups, lecturing coolly while everybody filed by.
   One little girl, lifted up by her mother, began to whisper: "Ashphasphazzzzz-pzz."
   The mother muttered, "Mumumumummmmmmm. . . ."
   Ellen Ferguson, who was holding the light, turned it on the child for a moment. "Well, what doesshewant?"
   "She wants to know what a man's looks like."
   Dr. Ora Fessenden took hold, barking from the stirrups. "With luck, she'll never have to see."
   "Right on," the butch sisters chorused, but the others began to look at one another in growing discomfiture, which as the weeks passed would ripen into alarm.

   By the time she reached the camp, June was already worried about the casseroles she had left for Vic and the kids. Would the one she had left in the oven go bad at room temperature? Maybe she ought to call Vic and tell him to let it bubble for an extra half hour just in case. Would Vic really keep an eye on Sandy, and if she got worse, would he get her to the doctor\ntime? What about Jimmy's braces? She almost turned back.
   But she was already at the gate to Ellen Ferguson's farm, and she was surprised to see a hastily constructed guardhouse, with Ellen herself in khakis, standing with a carbine at the ready, and she said, "Don't shoot, Ellen, it's me."
   "For God's sake, June, I'm not going to shoot you." Ellen pushed her glasses up on her forehead so she could look into June's face. "I never thought you'd have the guts."
   "I guess I needed a change."
   "Isn't it thrilling?"
   "I feel funny without the children." June was trying to remember when she had last seen Ellen: over a bridge table? at Weight Watchers? "How did you get into this?"
   "I needed something to live for," Ellen said.
   By that time two other women with rifles had impounded her car and then she was in a jeep bouncing up the dirt road to headquarters. The women behind the table all had on khakis, but they looked not at all alike in them. One was tall and tawny and called herself Sheena; there was a tough, funny-looking one named Rap and the third was Margy, still redolent of the kitchen sink. Sheena made the welcoming speech, and then Rap took her particulars while Margy wrote everything down.
   She lied a little about her weight, and was already on the defensive when Rap looked at her over her glasses, saying, "Occupation?"
   "Uh, household manager."
   "Oh shit, another housewife. Skills?"
   "Well, I used to paint a little, and . . ."
   Rap snorted.
   "I'm pretty good at conversational French."
   "Kitchen detail," Rap said to Margy and Margy checked off a box and flipped over to the next sheet. "But I'm tired of all that," June said.
   Rap said, "Next."
   Oh it was good sitting around the campfire, swapping stories about the men at work and the men at home; every woman had a horror story, because even the men who claimed to be behind them weren't really behind them, they were paying lip service to avoid a higher price, and even the best among them would make those terrible verbal slips. It was good to talk to other women who were smarter than their husbands and having to pretend they weren't. It was good to be able to sprawl in front of the fire without having to think about Richard and what time he would be home. The kids were safely stashed down at the day care compound, along with everybody else's kids, and for the first time in at least eight years Clenda could relax and think about herself. She listened drowsily to that night's speeches, three examples of wildly diverging cant, and she would have taken notes except that she was full, digesting a dinner she hadn't had to cook, and for almost the first time in eight years she wasn't going to have to go out to the kitchen and face the dishes.
   Marva, Patsy and Betts took turns admiring each other in their new uniforms and they sat at the edge of the group, hugging their knees and listening in growing excitement. Why, they didn't have to worry about what they looked like, that wasn't going to matter in the new scheme of things. It didn't matter whether or not they had dates. By the time the new order was established, they weren't even going to want dates. Although they would rather die than admit it, they all felt a little pang at this. Goodbye hope chest, goodbye wedding trip to Nassau and picture in the papers in the long white veil. Patsy, who wanted to be a corporation lawyer, thought: Why can't I have it all.

   Now that his mother was dead and he didn't need to sell vacuum cleaners any more, Andy Ellis was thrown back on his own resources. He spent three hours in the shower and three days sleeping, and on the fourth day he emerged to find out his girl had left him for the koto player from across the hall. "Well shit," he said, and wandered into the street.
   He had only been asleep for three days but everything was subtly different. The people in the corner market were mostly men, stocking up on TV dinners and chunky soups or else buying cooking wines and herbs, kidneys, beef liver and tripe. The usual girl was gone from the checkout counter, the butcher was running the register instead, and when Andy asked about it, Freddy the manager said, "She joined up."
   "Are you kidding?"
   "Some girl scout camp up at Ferguson's. The tails revolt."
   Just then a jeep sped by in the street outside; there was a crash and they both hit the floor, rising to their elbows after the object that had shattered the front window did not explode. It was a rock with a note attached. Andy picked his way through the glass to retrieve it. It read:
   WE WILL BUKY YOU
   "See?" Freddy said, ugly and vindictive. "See? See?"
   The local hospital admitted several cases of temporary blindness in men who had been attacked by night with women's deodorant spray.
   All over town the men whose wives remained lay next to them in growing unease. Although they all feigned sleep, they were aware that the stillness was too profound: the women were thinking.
   The women trashed a porn movie house. Among them was the wife of the manager, who said, as she threw an open can of film over the balcony, watching it unroll, "I'm doing this for us."
   So it had begun. For the time being, Rap and her cadre, who were in charge of the military operation, intended to satisfy themselves with guerrilla tactics; so far, nobody had been able to link the sniping and materiel bombing with the women on the hill, but they all knew it was only a matter of time before the first police cruiser came up to Ellen Ferguson's gate with a search warrant, and they were going to have to wage open war.
   By this time one of the back pastures had been converted to a rifle range, and even poor June had to spend at least one hour of every day in practice. She began to take an embarrassing pleasure in it, thinking, as she potted away:
   Aha, Vic, there's a nick in your scalp. Maybe you'll remember what I look like next time you leave the house for the day.
   Okay, kids, I am not the maid.
   All right, Sally, you and your damn career. You're still only the maid.
   Then, surprisingly:This is for you, Sheena. How dare you go around looking like that, when I have to look like this.
   This is for every rapist on the block.
   By the time she fired her last shot her vision was blurred by tears.June, you are stupid, stupid, you always have been and you know perfectly well nothing is going to make any difference.
   Two places away, Clenda saw Richard's outline in the target. She made a bulls'-eye.All right, damn you, pick up that toilet brush.
   Going back to camp in the truck they all sang "Up Women" and "The Internacionale," and June began to feel a little better. It reminded her of the good old days at camp in middle childhood, when girls and boys played together as if there wasn't any difference. She longed for that old androgynous body, the time before sexual responsibility. Sitting next to her on the bench, Glenda sang along but her mind was at the university; she didn't know what she was going to do if she got the Guggenheim because Richard had applied without success for so long that he had given up trying. What should she do, lie about it? It would be in all the papers. She wondered how convincing she would be, saying, Shit, honey, it doesn't mean anything. She would have to give up the revolution and get back to her work; her book was only half-written; she would have to go back to juggling kids and house and worried it was going to be hard, hard. She decided finally that she would let the Guggenheim Foundation make the decision for her. She would wait until late February and then write and tell Richard where to forward her mail.
   Leading the song, Rap looked at her group. Even the softest ones had callouses now, but it was going to be some time before she made real fighters out of them. She wondered why women had all buried the instinct to kill. It was those damn babies, she decided: grunt, strain, pain,Baby.Hand a mother a gun and tell her to kill and she will say,After I went to all that trouble?Well if you are going to make sacrifices you are going to have to make sacrifices, she thought, and led them in a chorus of the battle anthem, watching to see just who did and who didn't throw herself into the last chorus, which ended: kill, kill,kill.
   Sally was watching the smoke again. Zack said, "I wish you would come away from that window."
   She kept looking for longer than he would have liked her to, and when she turned, she said, "Zack, why did you marry me?"
   "Couldn't live without you."
   "No, really."
   "Because I wanted to love you and decorate you and take care of you for the rest of your life."
   "Why me?"
   "I thought we could be friends for a long time."
   "I guess. I didn't mean why did you marryme,I meant, why did youmarryme."
   He looked into his palms. "I wanted you to take care of me too."
   "Is that all?"
   He could see she was serious and because she was not going to let go he thought for a minute and said at last, "Nobody wants to die alone."
   Down the street, June Goodall's husband, Vic, had called every hospital in the county without results. The police had no reports of middle-aged housewives losing their memory in Sears or getting raped, robbed or poleaxed anywhere within the city limits. The police sergeant said, "Mr. Goodall, we've got more serious things on our minds. These bombings, for one thing, and the leaflets and the rip-offs. Do you know that women have been walking out of supermarkets with full shopping carts without paying a cent?" There seemed to be a thousand cases like June's, and if the department ever got a minute for them it would have to be first come first served.
   So Vic languished in his darkening house. He had managed to get the kids off to school by himself the past couple of days. He gave them money for hot lunches, but they were running out of clean clothes and he could not bring himself to sort through those disgusting smelly things in the clothes hamper to run a load of wash. They had run through June's casseroles and they were going to have to start eating out; they would probably go to the Big Beef Plaza tonight, and have pizza tomorrow and chicken the next night and Chinese the next, and if June wasn't back by that time he didn't know what he was going to do because he was at his wits' end. The dishes were piling up in the kitchen and he couldn't understand why everything looked so grimy; he couldn't quite figure out why, but the toilet had begun to smell. One of these days he was going to have to try and get his mother over to clean things up a little. It was annoying, not having any clean underwear. He wished June would come back.
   For the fifth straight day, Richard Thompson, Glenda's husband, openedThe French Chefto a new recipe and prepared himself an exquisite dinner. Once it was finished he relaxed in the blissful silence. Now that Glenda was gone he was able to keep things the way he liked them; he didn't break his neck on Matchbox racers every time he went to put a little Vivaldi on the record player. It was refreshing not to have to meet Glenda's eyes, where, to his growing dissatisfaction, he perpetually measured himself. Without her demands, without the kids around to distract him, he would be able to finish his monograph on Lyly'sEuphues.He might even begin to write his book. Setting aside Glenda's half-finished manuscript with a certain satisfaction, he cleared a space for himself at the desk and tried to begin.
   Castrated,he thought half an hour later.Her and her damned career, she has castrated me.
   He went to the phone and began calling names on his secret list. For some reason most of them weren't home, but on the fifth call he came up with Jennifer, the biology major who wanted to write poetry, and within minutes the two of them were reaffirming his masculinity on the living room rug, and if a few pages of Glenda's half-finished manuscript got mislaid in the tussle, who was there to protest? If she was going to be off there, farting around in the woods with all those women, she never would get it finished.
   In the hills, the number of women had swelled, and it was apparent to Sheena, Ellen and Rap that it was time to stop hit-and-run terrorism and operate on a larger scale. They would mount a final recruiting campaign. Once that was completed, they would be ready to take their first objective. Sheena had decided the Sunnydell Shopping Center would be their base for a weep of the entire country. They were fairly sure retaliation would be slow, and to impede it further, they had prepared an advertising campaign built on the slogan: you wouldn't shoot your mother, would you? As soon as they could, they would co-opt some television equipment and make their first nationwide telecast from Sunnydell. Volunteers would flock in from fifty states and in time the country would be theirs.
   There was some difference of opinion as to what they were going to do with it. Rap was advocating a scorched-earth policy; the women would rise like phoenixes from the ashes and build a new nation from the rubble, more or less alone. Sheena raised the idea of an auxiliary made up of male sympathizers. The women would rule, but with men at hand. Margy secretly felt thatbothRap and Sheena were too militant; she didn't want things to be completely different, only a little better. Ellen Ferguson wanted to annex all the land surrounding her place. She envisioned it as the capitol city of the new world. The butch sisters wanted special legislation that would outlaw contact, social or sexual, with men, with, perhaps, special provisions for social meetings with their gay brethren. Certain of the straight sisters were made uncomfortable by their association with the butch sisters and wished there were some way the battle could progress without them. At least half of these women wanted their men back, once victory was assured, and the other half were looking into ways of perpetuating the race by means of parthenogenesis, or, at worst, sperm banks and Al techniques. One highly vocal splinter group wanted mandatory sterilization for everybody, and a portion of the lunatic fringe was demanding transsexual operations. Because nobody could agree, the women decided for the time being to skip over the issues and concentrate on the war effort itself.
   By this time, word had spread and the volunteers were coming in, so it was easy to ignore issues because logistics were more pressing. It was still warm enough for the extras to bunk in the fields, but winter was coming on and the women were going to have to manage food, shelters and uniforms for an unpredictable number. There had been a temporary windfall when Rap's bunch hijacked a couple of semis filled with frozen dinners and surplus clothes, but Rap and Sheena and the others could sense the hounds of hunger and need not far away and so they worked feverishly to prepare for the invasion. Unless they could take the town by the end of the month, they were lost.
   "We won't have to hurt ourfathers,will we?" Although she was now an expert marksman and had been placed in charge of a platoon, Patsy was still not at ease with the cause.
   Rap avoided her eyes. "Don't be ridiculous."
   "I just couldn't do that to anybody Iloved!"Patsy said. She reassembled her rifle, driving the bolt into place with a click:
   "Don't you worry about it," Rap said. "All you have to worry about is looking good when you lead that recruiting detail."
   "Okay." Patsy tossed her hair. She knew how she and her platoon looked, charging into the wind; she could feel the whole wild group around her, on the run with their heads high and their bright hair streaming. I wish the boys at school could see,she thought, and turned away hastily before Rap could guess what she was thinking.
   I wonder if any woman academic can be happy.Clenda was on latrine detail and this always made her reflective.Maybe if they marry garage mechanics.In the old days there had been academic types: single, tweedy, sturdy in orthopedic shoes, but somewhere along the way these types had been supplanted by married women of every conceivable type, who pressed forward in wildly varied disciplines, having in common only the singular harried look which marked them all. The rubric was more or less set: if you were good, you always had to worry about whether you were shortchanging your family; if you weren't as good as he was, you would always have to wonder whether it was because of all the other duties: babies, meals, the house; if despite everything you turned out to be better than he was, then you had to decide whether to try and minimize it, or prepare yourself for the wise looks on the one side, on the other, his look of uncomprehending reproach. If youwerebetter than he was, then why should you be wasting your time withhim?She felt light years removed from the time when girls used to be advised to lethimwin the tennis match; everybody played to win now, but she had the uncomfortable feeling that there might never be any real victories. Whether or not you won, there were too many impediments: if he had a job and you didn't, then tough; if you both had jobs but he didn't get tenure, then you had to quit and move with him to a new place. She poured Lysol into the last toilet and turned her back on it, thinking:Maybe that's why those Hollywood marriages are always breaking up.
   Sally finished putting the children to bed and came back into the living room, where Zack was waiting for her on the couch. By this time she had heard the women's broadcasts, she was well aware of what was going on at Ellen Ferguson's place and knew as well that this was where June was, and June was so inept, so soft and incapable that she really ought to be up there helping June, helpingthem;it was a job that ought to be done, on what scale she could not be sure, but the fire was warm and Zack was waiting; he and the children, her career, were all more important than that abstraction in the hills; she had negotiated her own peace—let them take care of theirs. Settling in next to Zack, she thought: I don't love my little pink dishmop, I don't, but everybody has to shovelsomeshit.Then:Cod help the sailors and poor fishermen who have to be abroad on a night like this.
   June had requisitioned a jeep and wasonher way into town to knock over the corner market, because food was already in short supply. She had on the housedress she had worn when she enlisted, and she would carry somebody's old pink coat over her arm to hide the pistol and the grenade she would use to hold her hostages at bay while the grocery boys filled up the jeep. She had meant to go directly to her own corner market, thinking, among other things, that the manager might recognize her and tell Vic, after which, of course, he would track her back to the camp and force her to come home to him and the children. Somehow or other she went right by the market and ended up at the corner of her street.
   She knew she was making a mistake but she parked and began to prowl the neighborhood. The curtains in Sally's window were drawn but the light behind them gave out a rosy glow, which called up in her longings that she could not have identified; they had very little to do with her own home, or her life with Vic; they dated, rather, from her childhood, when she had imagined marriage, had prepared herself for it with an amorphous but unshakeable idea of what it would be like.
   Vic had forgotten to put out the garbage; overflowing cans crowded the back porch and one of them was overturned. Walking on self-conscious cat feet, June made her way up on the porch and peered into the kitchen: just as she had suspected, a mess. A portion of her was tempted to go in and do a swift, secret cleaning—the phantom housewife strikes— but the risk of being discovered was too great. Well, let him clean up his own damn messes from now on. She tiptoed back down the steps and went around the house, crunching through bushes to look into the living room. She had hoped to get a glimpse of the children, but they were already in bed.She thought about waking Juney with pebbles on her window, whispering: Don't worry, mother's all right, but she wasn't strong enough; if she saw the children she would never be able to walk away and return to camp. She assuaged herself by thinking she would come back for Juney and Victor Junior just as soon as victory was assured. The living room had an abandoned look, with dust visible and papers strewn, a chair overturned and Vic himself asleep on the couch, just another neglected object in this neglected house. Surprised at how little she felt, she shrugged and turned away. On her way backto the jeep she did stop to right the garbage can,
   The holdup went off all right; she could hear distant sirens building behind her, but so far as she knew, she wasn't followed.
   The worst thing turned out to be finding Rap, Sheena and Ellen Ferguson gathered around the stove in the main cabin; they didn't hear her come in.
   ". . . so damn fat and soft," Rap was saying.
   Sheena said, "You have to take your soldiers where you can find them."
   Ellen said, "An army travels on its stomach."
   "As soon as it's over we dump the housewives," Rap said. "Every single one."
   June cleared her throat. "I've brought the food."
   "Politics may make strange bedfellows," Glenda said, "but this is ridiculous."
   "Have it your way," she said huffily—whoever she was —and left the way she had come in.
   Patsy was in charge of the recruiting platoon, which visited the high school, and she thought the principal was really impressed when he saw that it was her. Her girls bound and gagged the faculty and held the boys at bay with M-1 s, while she made her pitch. She was successful but drained when she finished, pale and exhausted, and while her girls were processing the recruits (all but one per cent of the girl students, as it turned out) and waiting for the bus to take them all to camp, Patsy put Marva in charge and simply drifted away, surprised to find herself in front of the sweetie shop two blocks from school. The place was empty except for Andy Wis, who had just begun work as a counter boy.
   He brought her a double dip milkshake and lingered.
   She tried to wave him away with her rifle. "We don't have to pay."
   "That isn't it." He yearned, drawn to her.
   She couldn't help seeing how beautiful he was. "Bug off."
   Andy said, "Beautiful."
   She lifted her head, aglow. "Really?"
   "No kidding. Give me a minute, I'm going to fall in love with you."
   "You can't," she said, remembering her part in the eleventh grade production ofRomeo and Juliet."I'm some kind of Montague."
   "Okay, then, I'll be the Capulet."
   "I . . ." Patsy leaned forward over the counter so they could kiss. She drew back at the sound of a distant shot. "I have to go."
   "When can I see you?"
   Patsy said, "I'll sneak out tonight."
   Sheena was in charge of the recruiting detail that visited Sally's neighborhood. Although she had been an obscure first-year medical student when the upheaval started, she was emerging as the heroine of the revolution. The newspapers and television newscasters all knew who she was, and so Sally knew, and was undeniably flattered that she had come in person.
   She and Sally met on a high level: if there was an aristocracy of achievement, then they spoke aristocrat to aristocrat. Sheena spoke of talent and obligation; she spoke of need and duty; she spoke of service. She said the women neededSally'shelp, and when Sally said, Let them help themselves, she said: They can't. They were still arguing when the kids came home from school; they were still arguing when Zack came home. Sheena spoke of the common cause and a better world; she spoke once more of the relationship between gifts and service. Sally turned to Zack, murmuring, and he said:
   "If you think you have to do it, then I guess you'd better ..."
   She said: "The sooner I go the sooner this thing will be over."
   Zack said, "I hope you're right."
   Sheena stood aside so they could make their goodbyes. Sally hugged the children, and when they begged to go with her she said, "It's no place for kids."
   Climbing into the truck, she looked back at Zack and thought: I could not love the half so much loved I not honor more.What she said was, "I must be out of my mind."
   Zack stood in the street with his arms around the kids, saying, "She'll be back soon. Some day they'll come marching down our street."
   In the truck, Sheena said, "Don't worry. When we occupy, we'll see that he gets a break."
   They were going so fast now that there was no jumping off the truck; the other women at the camp seemed to be so grateful to see her that she knew there would be no jumping off the truck until it was over.
   June whispered: "To be perfectly honest, I was beginning to have my doubts about the whole thing, but withyoualong ..."
   They made Sally a member of the council.
   The next day the women took the Sunnydell Shopping Center, which included two supermarkets, a discount house, a fast-food place and a cinema; they selected it because it was close to camp and they could change guard details with a minimum of difficulty. The markets would solve the food problem for the time being, at least.
   In battle, they used M-1s, one submachine gun and a variety of sidearms and grenades. They took the place without firing a shot.
   The truth was that until this moment, the men had not taken the revolution seriously.
   The men had thought: After all, it's only women.
   They had thought: Let them have their fun. We can stop this thing whenever we like.
   They had thought: What difference does it make? They'll come crawling back to us.
   In this first foray, the men, who were, after all, unarmed, fled in surprise. Because the women had not been able to agree upon policy, they let their vanquished enemy go; for the time being, they would take no prisoners.
   They were sitting around the victory fire that night, already aware that it was chilly and when the flames burned down a bit they were going to have to go back inside. It was then, for the first time, that Sheena raised the question of allies. She said, "Sooner or later we have to face facts. We can't make it alone."
   Sally brightened, thinking of Zack: "I think you're right."
   Rap leaned forward. "Are youserious?"
   Sheena tossed her hair. "What's the matter with sympathetic men?"
   "The only sympathetic man is a dead man," Rap said.
   Sally rose. "Wait a minute . . ."
   Ellen Ferguson pulled her down. "Relax. All she means is, at this stage we can't afford any risks. Infiltration. Spies."
   Sheena said, "We could use a few men."
   Sally heard herself, sotto voce: "You're not kidding."
   Dr. Ora Fessenden rose, in stages. She said, with force, "Look here, Sheena, if you are going to take a stance, you are going to have to take a stance."
   If she had been there, Patsy would have risen to speak in favor of a men's auxiliary. As it was, she had sneaked out to meet Andy. They were down in the shadow of the conquered shopping center, falling in love.
   In the command shack, much later, Sheena paced moodily. "They aren't going to be satisfied with the shopping center for long."
   Sally said, "I think things are going to get out of hand."
   "They can't." Sheena kept on pacing. "We have too much to do."
   "Your friend Rap and the doctor are out for blood. Lord knows how many of the others are going to go along." Sally sat at the desk, doodling on the roll sheet. "Maybe you ought to dump them."
   "We need muscle, Sally."
   Margy, who seemed to be dusting, said, "I go along with Sally."
   "No." Lory was in the corner, transcribing Sheena's remarks of the evening. "Sheena's absolutely right."
   It was morning, and Ellen Ferguson paced the perimeter of the camp. "We're going to need fortifications here, and more over here."
   Glenda, who followed with the clipboard, said, "What are you expecting?"
   "I don't know, but I want to be ready for it."
   "Shouldn't we be concentrating on offense?"
   "Not me," Ellen said, with her feet set wide in the dirt.
   "This is my place. This is where I make my stand."
   "Allies. That woman is a marshmallow.Allies."Rap was still seething. "I think we ought to go ahead and make our play."
   "We still need them," Dr. Ora Fessenden said. The two of them were squatting in the woods above the camp. "When we get strong enough, then . . ." She drew her finger across her throat. "Zzzzt."
   "Dammit to hell, Ora." Rap was on her feet, punching a tree trunk. "If you're going to fight, you're going to have to kill."
   "You know it and I know it," Dr. Ora Fessenden said. "Now try and tell that to the rest of the girls."
   As she settled into the routine, Sally missed Zack more and more, and, partly because she missed him so much, she began making a few inquiries. The consensus was that women had to free themselves from every kind of dependence, both emotional and physical; sexual demands would be treated on the level of other bodily functions: any old toilet would do.
   "Hello, Ralph?"
   "Yes?"
   "It's me, Lory. Listen, did you read about what we did?"
   "About whatwhodid?"
   "Stop trying to pretend you don't know. Listen, Ralph, that was us that took over out at Sunnydale.Me."
   "You and what army?"
   "The women's army. Oh, I see, you're being sarcastic. Well listen, Ralph, I said I was going to realize myself as a person and I have. I'm a sublieutenant now. A sublieutenant, imagine."
   "What about your novel you were going to write about your rotten marriage?"
   "Don't pick nits. I'm Sheena's secretary now. You were holding me back, Ralph, all those years you were dragging me down. Well now I'm a free agent. Free."
   "Terrific."
   "Look, I have to go; we have uniform inspection now and worst luck, I drew KP."
   "Listen," Rap was saying to a group of intent women, "You're going along minding your own business andwham,he swoops down like the wolf upon the fold. It's the ultimate weapon."
   Dr. Ora Fessenden said, bitterly, "And you just try and rape him back."
   Margy said, "I thought men were, you know, supposed to protect women from all that."
   Annie Chandler, who had emerged as one of the militants, threw her knife into a tree. "Try and convince them it ever happened. The cops say you must have led him on."
   Dr. Ora Fessenden drew a picture of the woman as ruined city, with gestures.
   "I don't know what I would do if one of them tried to . . ." Betts said to Patsy. "What would you do?"
   Oh Andy.Patsy said, "I don't know."
   "There's only one thingtodo," Rap said, with force. "Shoot on sight."
   It was hard to say what their expectations had been after this first victory. There were probably almost as many expectations as there were women. A certain segment of the group was disappointed because Vic/Richard/Tom-Dick-Harry had not come crawling up the hill, crying, My God how I have misused you, come home and everything will be different. Rap and the others would have wished for more carnage, and as the days passed the thirst for blood heaped dust in their mouths; Sheena was secretly disappointed that there had not been wider coverage of the battle in the press and on nationwide TV. The mood in the camp after that first victory was one of anticlimax, indefinable but growing discontent.
   Petty fights broke out in the rank-and-file.
   There arose, around this time, some differences between the rank-and-file women, some of whom had children, and the Mothers' Escadrille, an elite corps of women who saw themselves as professional mothers. As a group, they looked down on people like Glenda, who sent their children off to the day care compound. The Mothers' Escadrille would admit, when pressed, that their goal in banding together was the eventual elimination of the role of the man in the family, for man, with his incessant demands, interfered with the primary function of the mother. Still, they had to admit that, since they had no other profession, they were going to have to be assured some kind of financial support in the ultimate scheme of things. They also wanted more respect from the other women, who seemed to look down on them because they lacked technical or professional skills, and so they conducted their allotted duties in a growing atmosphere of hostility.
   It was after a heated discussion with one of the mothers that Glenda, suffering guilt pangs and feelings of inadequacy, went down to the day care compound to see her own children. She picked them out at once, playing in the middle of a tangle of preschoolers, but she saw with a pang that Bobby was reluctant to leave the group to come and talk to her, and even after she said, "It's Mommy," it took Tommy a measurable number of seconds before he recognized her.
   The price,she thought in some bitterness. I hope in the end it turns out to be worth the price.
   Betts had tried running across the field both with and without her bra, and except for the time when she wrapped herself in the Ace bandage, she definitely bounced/At the moment nobody in the camp was agreed as to whether it was a good or a bad thing to bounce; it was either another one of those things the world at large was going to have to, by God, learn to ignore, or else it was a sign of weakness. Either way, it was uncomfortable, but so was the Ace bandage uncomfortable.
   Sally was drawn toward home but at the same time, looking around at the disparate women and their growing discontentment, she knew she ought to stay on until the revolution had put itself in order. The women were unable to agree what the next step would be, or to consolidate their gains, and so she met late into the night with Sheena, and walked around among the others. She had the feeling she could help, that whatever her own circumstance, the others were so patently miserable that she must help.
   "Listen," said Zack, when Sally called him to explain, "it's no picnic being a guy, either."
   The fear of rape had become epidemic. Perhaps because there had been no overt assault on the women's camp, no army battalions, not even any police cruisers, the women expected more subtle and more brutal retaliation. The older women were outraged because some of the younger women said what difference did it make? If you were going to make it, what did the circumstances matter? Still, the women talked about it around the campfire and at last it was agreed that regardless of individual reactions, for ideological reasons it was important that it be made impossible; the propaganda value to the enemy would be too great, and so, at Rap's suggestion, each woman was instructed to carry her handweapon at all times and to shoot first and ask questions later.
   Patsy and Andy Ellis were finding more and more ways to be together, but no matter how much they were together, it didn't seem to be enough. Since Andy's hair was long, they thought briefly of disguising him as a woman and getting him into camp, but a number of things: whiskers, figure, musculature, would give him away and Patsy decided it would be too dangerous.
   "Look, I'm in love with you," Andy said. "Why don't you run away?"
   "Oh, I couldn't do that," Patsy said, trying to hide herself in his arms. "And besides . . ."
   He hid his face in her hair. "Besides nothing."
   "No, really. Besides. Everybody has guns now, everybody has different feelings, but they all hate deserters. We have a new policy."
   "They'd never find us."
   She looked into Andy's face. "Don't you want to hear about the new policy?"
   "Okay, what?"
   "About deserters." She spelled it out, more than a little surprised at how far she had come. "It's hunt down and shave and kill,"
   "They wouldn't really do that."
   "We had the first one last night, this poor old lady, about forty. She got homesick for her family and tried to run away."
   Andy was still amused. "They shaved all her hair off."
   "That wasn't all," Patsy said. "When they got finished they really did it. Firing squad, the works."
   Although June would not have been sensitive to it, there were diverging feelings in the camp about who did what, and what there was to do. All she knew was she was sick and tired of working in the day care compound and when she went to Sheena and complained, Sheena, with exquisite sensitivity, put her in charge of the detail that guarded the shopping center. It was a temporary assignment but it gave June a chance to put on a cartridge belt and all the other paraphernalia of victory, so she cut an impressive figure for Vic, when he came along.
   "It's me, honey, don't you know me?"
   "Go away," she said with some satisfaction. "No civilians allowed."
   "Oh for God's sake."
   To their mutual astonishment, she raised her rifle. "Bug off, fella."
   "You don't really think you can get away with this."
   "Bug off or I'll shoot."
   "We're just letting you do this, to get it out of your system." Vic moved as if to relieve her of the rifle. "If it makes you feel a little better ..."
   "This is your last warning."
   "Listen," Vic said, a study in male outrage, "one step too far, and,tschoom,federal troops."
   She fired a warning shot so he left.
   Glenda was a little sensitive about the fact that various husbands had found ways to smuggle in messages, some had even come looking for their wives, but not Richard. One poor bastard had been shot when he came in too close to the fire; they heard an outcry and a thrashing in the bushes but when they looked for him the next morning there was no body, so he must have dragged himself away. There had been notes in food consignments and one husband had hired a skywriter, but so far she had neither word nor sign from Richard, and she wasn't altogether convinced she cared. He seemed to have drifted off into time past along with her job, her students and her book. Once her greatest hope had been to read her first chapter at the national psychological conference; now she wondered whether there would even be any more conferences. If she and the others were successful, that would break down, along with a number of other things. Still, in the end she would have her definitive work on the women's revolution, but so far the day-to-day talks had been so engrossing that she hadn't had a minute to begin. Right now, there was too much to do.
   They made their first nationwide telecast from a specially erected podium in front of the captured shopping center. For various complicated reasons the leaders made Sally speak first, and, as they had anticipated, she espoused the moderate view: this was a matter of service, women were going to have to give up a few things to help better the lot of their sisters. Once the job was done everything would be improved, but not really different.
   Sheena came next, throwing back her bright hair and issuing the call to arms. The mail she drew would include several spirited letters from male volunteers who were already in love with her and would follow her anywhere; because the women had pledged never to take allies, these letters would be destroyed before they ever reached her.
   Dr. Ora Fessenden was all threats, fire and brimstone. Rap took up where she left off.
   "We're going to fight until there's not a man left standing ..."
   Annie Chandler yelled, "Right on."
   Margy was trying to speak: "...just a few concessions..."
   Rap's eyes glittered. "Only sisters, and you guys . . ."
   Ellen Ferguson said, "Up, women, out of slavery."
   Rap's voice rose. "You guys are going to burn."
   Sally was saying, "Reason with you . . ."
   Rap hissed: "Bury you."
   It was hard to say which parts of these messages reached the viewing public, as the women all interrupted and overrode each other and the cameramen concentrated on Sheena, who was to become the sign and symbol of the revolution. None of the women on the platform seemed to be listening to any of the others, which may have been just as well; the only reason they had been able to come this far together was because nobody ever did.
   The letters began to come:
   "Dear Sheena, I would like to join, but I already have nine children and now I am pregnant again . . ."
   "Dear Sheena, I am a wife and mother but I will throw it all over in an instant if you will only glance my way . . ."
   "Dear Sheena, our group has occupied the town hall in Gillespie, Indiana, but we are running out of ammo and the water supply is low. Several of the women have been stricken with plague, and we are running out of food . . ."
   "First I made him lick my boots and then I killed him but now I have this terrible problem with the body, the kids don't want me to get rid of him . . ."
   "Who do you think you are running this war when you don't even know what you are doing, what you have to do is kill every last damn one of them and the ones you don't kill you had better cut off their Things. . . ."
   "Sheena, baby, if you will only give up this harassed revolution you and I can make beautiful music together. I have signed this letter Maud to escape the censors but if you look underneath the stamp you can see who I really am."
   The volunteers were arriving in dozens. The first thing was that there was not housing for all of them; there was not equipment, and so the women in charge had to cut off enlistments at a certain point and send the others back to make war in their own home towns.
   The second thing was that, with the increase in numbers, there wasanincreasing bitterness about the chores. Nobody wanted to do them; in secret truth nobody ever had, but so far the volunteers had all borne it, up to a point, because they sincerely believed that in the new order there would be no chores. Now they understood that the more people there were banded together, the more chores there would be. Laundry and garbage were piling up. At some point around the time of the occupation of the shopping center, the women had begun to understand that no matter what they accomplished, there would always be ugly things to do: the chores, and now, because there seemed to be somuchwork, there were terrible disagreements as to who was supposed to do what, and as a consequence they had all more or less stopped doing any of it.
   Meals around the camp were catch as catch can.
   The time was approaching when nobody in the camp would have clean underwear.
   The latrines were unspeakable.
   The children were getting out of hand; some of them were forming packs and making raids of their own, so that the quartermaster never had any clear idea of what she would find in the storehouse. Most of the women in the detail that had been put in charge of the day care compound were fed up.
   By this time Sheena was a national figure; her picture was on the cover of both news magazines in the same week and there were nationally distributed lines of sweatshirts and tooth glasses bearing her picture and her name. She received love mail and hate mail in such quantity that Lory, who had joined the women to realize her potential as an individual, had to give up her other duties to concentrate on Sheena's mail. She would have to admit that it was better than KP, and besides, if Sheena went on to better things, maybe she would get to go along.
   The air of dissatisfaction grew. Nobody agreed any more, not even all those who had agreed to agree for the sake of the cause. Fights broke out like flash fires; some women were given to sulks and inexplicable silences, others to blows and helpless tears quickly forgotten. On advice from Sally, Sheena called a council to try and bring everybody together, but it got off on the wrong foot.
   Dr. Ora Fessenden said, "Are we going to sit around on our butts, or what?"
   Sheena said, "National opinion is running in our favor, We have to consolidate our gains."
   Rap said, "Gains hell. What kind of war is this? Where are the scalps?"
   Sheena drew herself up. "We are not Amazons."
   Rap said, "That's a crock of shit," and she and Dr. Ora Fessenden stamped out.
   "Rape," Rap screamed, running from the far left to the far right and then making a complete circuit of the clearing.
   "Rape," she shouted, taking careful note of who came running and who didn't. "Raaaaaaaape."
   Dr. Ora Fessenden rushed to her side, the figure of outraged womanhood. They both watched until a suitable number of women had assembled, and then she said, in stentorian tones, "We cannot let this go unavenged."
   "My God," Sheena said, looking at the blackened object in Rap's hand. "What are you doing with that thing?"
   Blood-smeared and grinning, Rap said, "When you're trying to make a point, you have to go ahead and make your point." She thrust her trophy into Sheena's face.
   Sheena averted her eyes quickly; she thought it was an ear. "That's supposed to be arhetoricalpoint."
   "Listen, baby, this world doesn't give marks for good conduct."
   Sheena stiffened. "You keep your girls in line or you're finished."
   Rap was smoldering; she pushed her face up to Sheena's, saying, "You can't do without us and you know it."
   "If we have to, we'll learn."
   "Aieee." One of Rap's cadre had taken the trophy from her and tied it on a string; now she ran through the camp, swinging it around her head, and dozens of throats opened to echo her shout. "Aiiiieeeee . . ."
   Patsy and Andy were together in the bushes near the camp; proximity to danger made their pleasure more intense.Andy said:"Leave with me."
   She said, "I can't. I told you what they do to deserters."
   "They'll never catch us."
   "You don't know these women," Patsy said. "Look, Andy, you'd better go."
   "Just a minute more." Andy buried his face in her hair. "lust a little minute more."
   "Rape," Rap shouted again, running through the clearing with her voice raised like a trumpet."Raaaaaaaape."
   Although she knew it was a mistake, Sally had sneaked away to see Zack and the children. The camp seemed strangely deserted, and nobody was there to sign out the jeep she took. She had an uncanny intimation of trouble at a great distance, but she shook it off and drove to her house. She would have expected barricades and guards: state of war, but the streets were virtually empty and she reached her neighborhood without trouble.
   Zack and the children embraced her and wanted to know when she was coming home.
   "Soon, I think. They're all frightened of us now."
   Zack said, "I'm not so sure."
   "There doesn't seem to be any resistance."
   "Oh," he said, "they've decided to let you have the town."
   "What did I tell you?"
   "Sop," he said. "You can have anything you want. Up to a point."
   Sally was thinking of Rap and Dr. Ora Fessenden. "What if we take more?"
   "Wipeout," Zack said. "You'll see."
   "Oh Lord," she said, vaulting into the jeep. "Maybe it'll be over sooner than I thought."
   She was already too late. She saw the flames shooting skyward as she came out the drive.
   "It's Flowermont."
   Because she had to make sure, she wrenched the jeep in that direction and rode to the garden apartments; smoke filled the streets for blocks around.
   Looking at the devastation, Sally was reminded of Indian massacres in the movies of her childhood: the smoking ruins, the carnage, the moans of the single survivor who would bubble out his story in her arms. She could not be sure about the bodies: whether there were any, whether there were as many as she thought, but she was sure those were charred corpses in the rubble. Rap and Dr. Ora Fessenden had devised a flag and hoisted it from a tree: the symbol of the women's movement, altered to suit their mood—the crudely executed fist reduced to clenched bones and surrounded by flames. The single survivor died before he could bubble out his story in her arms.
   In the camp, Rap and Dr. Ora Fessenden had a victory celebration around the fire. They had taken unspeakable trophies in their raid and could not understand why many of the women refused to wear them.
   Patsy and Andy, in the bushes, watched with growing alarm. Even from their safe distance, Andy was fairly sure he saw what he thought he saw, and he whispered, "Look, we've got to get out of here."
   "Not now," Patsy said, pulling him closer. "Tonight. The patrols."
   By now the little girls had been brought up from the day care compound and they had joined the dance, their fat cheeks smeared with blood. Rap's women were in heated discussion with the Mothers' Escadrille about the disposition of the boy children: would they be destroyed or reared as slaves? While they were talking, one of the mothers who had never felt at home in any faction sneaked down to the compound and freed the lot of them. Now she was running around in helpless tears, flapping her arms and sobbing broken messages, but no matter what she said to the children, she couldn't seem to get any of them to flee.
   Sheena and her lieutenant, Margy, and Lory, her secretary, came out of the command shack at the same moment Sally arrived in camp; she rushed to join them, and together they extracted Rap and Dr. Ora Fessenden from the dance for a meeting of the council.
   When they entered the shack, Ellen Ferguson hung up the phone in clattering haste and turned to confront them with a confusing mixture of expressions; Sally thought the foremost one was probably guilt.
   Sally waited until they were all silent and then said, "The place is surrounded. They let me through to bring the message. They have tanks."
   Ellen Ferguson said, "They just delivered their ultimatum. Stop the raids and pull back to camp or they'll have bombers level this place."
   "Pull back hell," Rap said.
   Dr. Ora Fessenden shook a bloody fist. "We'll show them."
   "We'll fight to the death."
   Ellen said, quietly, "I've already agreed."
   Down at the main gate, Marva, who was on guard duty, leaned across the barbed wire to talk to the captain of the tank detail. She thought he was kind of cute.
   "Don't anybody panic," Rap was saying. "We can handle this thing. We can fight them off."
   "We can fight them in the hedgerows," Dr. Ora Fessenden said in rising tones. "We can fight them in the ditches, we can hit them with everything we've got . . ."
   "Not from here you can't."
   "We can burn and bomb and kill and . . . What did you say?"
   "I said, not from here." Because they were all staring, Ellen Ferguson covered quickly, saying, "I mean, if I'm going to be of any value to the movement, I have to have this place in good condition."
   Sheena said, quietly, "That's not what you mean."
   Ellen was near tears. "All right, dammit, this place isallI have."
   Aiyuoa, Annie Chandler shrieked. "Rape." She parted the bushes to reveal Patsy and Andy, who hugged each other in silence. "Rape," Annie screamed, and everybody who could hear above the din came running. "Kill the bastard, rape, rape, rape."
   Patsy rose to her feet and drew Andy up with her, shouting to make herself heard. "I said, it isn't rape."
   Rap and Dr. Ora Fessenden were advancing on Ellen Ferguson. "You're not going to compromise us. We'll kill you first."
   "Oh," Ellen said, backing away. "That's another thing. They wanted the two of you. I had to promise we'd send you out."
   The two women plunged, and then retreated, mute with fury. Ellen had produced a gun from her desk drawer and now she had them covered.
   "Son of a bitch," Rap said. "Son of a bitch."
   "Kill them."
   "Burn them."
   "Hurt them."
   "Make an example of them."
   "I love you, Patsy."
   "Oh, Andy, I love you."
   Sally said, softly, "So it's all over."
   "Only parts of it," Ellen said. "It will never really be over as long as there are women left to fight. We'll be better off without these two and their cannibals; we can retrench and make a new start."
   "I guess this is as good a time as any." Sheena got to herfeet."I might as well tell you, I'm splitting."
   They turned to face her, Ellen being careful to keep the gun on Dr. Ora Fessenden and Rap.
   "You're what?"
   "I can do a hell of a lot more good on my new show. Prime time, nightly, nationwide TV."
   Rap snarled. "The hell you say."
   "Look, Rap, I'll interview you."
   "Stuff it."
   "Think what I can do for the movement, I can reach sixty million people, you'll see."
   Ellen Ferguson said, with some satisfaction, "That's not really what you mean."
   "Maybe it isn't. It's been you, you, you all this time." Sheena picked up her clipboard, her notebooks and papers; Lory and Margy both moved as if to follow her but she rebuffed them with a single sweep of her arm. "Well it's high time I started thinking about me."
   Outside, the women had raised a stake and now Patsy and Andy were lashed to it, standing back to back.
   In the shack, Rap and Dr. Ora Fessenden had turned as one and advanced on Ellen Ferguson, pushing the gun aside.
   The good doctor said, "I knew you wouldn't have the guts to shoot. You never had any guts."
   Ellen cried out. "Sheena, help me."
   But Sheena was already in the doorway, and she hesitated for only a moment, saying, "Listen, it'ssauve quipeutin this day and time, sweetie, and the sooner you realize it the better."
   Rap finished pushing Ellen down and took the gun. She stood over her victim for a minute, grinning. "In the battle of the sexes, there are no allies." Then she put a bullet through Ellen's favorite moosehead so Ellen would have something to remember her by.
   The women had collected twigs and they were just about to set fire to Patsy and Andy when Sheena came out, closely followed by Dr. Ora Fessenden and a warlike Rap.
   Everybody started shouting at once and in the imbroglio that followed, Patsy and Andy escaped. They would surface years later, in a small town in Minnesota, with an ecologically alarming number of children; they would both be able to pursue their chosen careers in the law because they worked hand in hand to take care of all the children and the house, and they would love each other until they died.
   Ellen Ferguson sat with her elbows on her knees and her head drooping, saying, "I can't believe it's all over, after I worked so hard, I gave so much. . . ."
   Sally said, "It isn't over. Remember what you said, as long as there are women, there will be a fight."
   "But we've lost our leaders."
   "You could';.."'
   "No, I couldn't."
   "Don't worry, there are plenty of others."
   As Sally spoke, the door opened and Glenda stepped in to take Sheena's place.
   When the melee in the clearing was over, Dr. Ora Fessenden and Rap had escaped with their followers. They knew the lay of the land and so they were able to elude the troop concentration, which surrounded the camp, and began to lay plans to regroup and fight another day.
   A number of women, disgusted by the orgy of violence, chose to pack their things and go. The Mothers' Escadrilie deserted en masse, taking their children and a few children who didn't even belong to them.
   Ellen said, "You're going to have to go down there and parley. I'm not used to talking to men."
   And so Sally found herself going down to the gate to conduct negotiations.
   She said, "The two you wanted got away. The rest of them—I mean us—are acting in good faith." She lifted her chin. "If you want to go ahead and bomb anyway, you'll have to go ahead and bomb!"
   The captain lifted her and set her on the hood of the jeep. He was grinning. "Shit, little lady, we just wanted to throw a scare into you."
   "You don't understand." She wanted to get down off the hood but he had propped his arms on either side of her. She knew she ought to be furious, but instead she kept thinking how much she missed Zack. Speaking with as much dignity as she could under the circumstances, she outlined the women's complaints; she already knew it was hopeless to list them as demands.
   "Don't you worry about a thing, honey." He lifted her down and gave her a slap on the rump to speed her on her way. "Everything is going to be real different from now on."
   "I bet."
   Coming back up the hill to camp, she saw how sad everything looked, and she could not for the life of her decide whether it was because the women who had been gathered here had been inadequate to the cause or whether it was, rather, that the cause itself had been insufficiently identified; she suspected that they had come up against the human condition, failed to recognize it and so tried to attack a single part, which seemed to involve attacking the only allies they would ever have. As for the specific campaign, as far as she could tell, it was possible to change some of the surface or superficial details but once that was done things were still going to be more or less the way they were, and all the best will in the world would not make any real difference.
   In the clearing, Lory stood at Glenda's elbow. "Of course you're going to need a lieutenant."
   Glenda said, "I guess so."
   Ellen Ferguson was brooding over a row of birches that had been trashed during the struggle. If she could stake them back up in time, they might reroot.
   June said, "Okay, I'm going to be mess sergeant." Margy said, "The hell you will," and pushed her in the face.
   Glenda said, thoughtfully, "Maybe we could mount a Lysistrata campaign."
   Lory snorted. "If their wives won't do it, there are plenty of girls who will."
   Zack sent a message:
   WE HAVE TO HELP EACH OTHER.
   Sally sent back:
   I KNOW.
   Before she went home, Sally had to say goodbye to Ellen Ferguson.
   Ellen's huge, homely face sagged. "Not you too."
   Sally looked at the desultory groups policing the wreckage, at the separate councils convening in every corner. "I don't know why I came. I guess I thought we could reallydosomething."
   Ellen made a half-turn, taking in the command shack, thecompound,the women who remained. "Isn't this enough?"
   "I have to get on with my life."
   Ellen said, "This is mine."
   "Oh, Vic, I've been so stupid." June was sobbing in Vic's arms. She was also lying in her teeth but she didn't care, she was sick of the revolution and she was going to have to go through this formula before Vic would allow her to resume her place at his kitchen sink. The work was still boring and stupid but at least there was less of it than there had been at camp; her bed was softer, and since it was coming on winter, she was grateful for the storm sashes, which Vic put up every November, and the warmth of the oil burner, which he took apart and cleaned with his own hands every fall.
   Sally found her house in good order, thanks to Zack, but there was several weeks' work piled up in her studio, and she had lost a couple of commissions. She opened her drawer to discover, with a smile, that Zack had washed at least one load of underwear with something red.
   "I think we do better together," Zack said.
   Sally said, "We always have."
   In the wake of fraternization with the military guard detail, Marva discovered she was pregnant. She knew what Dr. Ora Fessenden said she was supposed to do, but she didn't think she wanted to.
   As weeks passed, the women continued to drift away. "It's nice here and all," Betts said apologetically, "but there's a certainje ne sais quoimissing; I don't know what it is, but I'm going back in there and see if I can find it."
   Glenda said, "Yeah, well. So long as there is a yang, I guess there is going to have to be a yin."
   "Don't you mean, so long as there is a yin, there is going to have to be a yang?"
   Glenda looked in the general direction of town, knowing there was nothing there for her to go back to. "I don't know what I mean anymore."
   Activity and numbers at the camp had decreased to the point where federal troops could be withdrawn. They were needed, as it turned out, to deal with wildcat raids in another part of the state. Those who had been on the scene came back with reports of incredible viciousness.
   Standing at their windows in the town, the women could look up to the hills and see the camp fire still burning, but as the months wore on, fewer and fewer of them looked and the column of smoke diminished in size because the remaining women were running out of volunteers whose turn it was to feed the fire.
   Now that it was over, things went on more or less as they had before.

   GERARD E. GIANNATTASIO
   Protective Temporal Strike

   Perhaps the author's tour of duty as an air force officer taught him to push on to victory despite all odds. The odds on finding a new twist to add to the literature of all the time travel twists that have come before are overwhelming. But he has done it.

   Sylvie heard the door open: it wasn't locked. Out here in the country they never bothered. "Patti," she called, half laughing and wanting to share, "Patti, this recipe isoutrageous!"She had white flour to her elbows and a smudge where she'd wiped her forehead.
   "Patti?" She turned. "Oh! Hello."
   The figure standing in the doorway of the kitchen wore gray leather: belts and bulges, boots tight to the calves, and a conical, visored helmet with featureless dark faceplate. The unfamiliar three-barreled gun pointed at her midriff surprised Sylvie less than the four-foot height of the bearer.
   "Move away from the table." The voice wasmasculine,shocking in its depth.
   Sylvie moved. "Okay," she said raising her hands aloft. "Can I get you something?"
   "Do you always greet armed strangers with a civil tongue?"
   "Well, you're my first."
   "He could be your last." A second figure had entered. Feminine, slightly taller, wearing low slippers and a dark blue jump suit, she said, "Stitch her up, armed stranger."
   The dwarfish figure brought his gun up slightly. Sylvie felt a prickling line run from below her rib cage to her left breast. She swayed. The feminine figure went out.
   The man came forward, slinging his gun around to his back. He caught Sylvie and eased her to the floor. "How do you like armed strangers now?"
   She tried to speak. He leaned close, then straightened. Another male figure had entered, a twin to the first.
   "She knows at least one word you might not expect," the first intruder said.
   "We are to bring her into the next room. And remember, she speaks the secret tongue."
   "That is strange to contemplate."
   They lifted her by feet and shoulders.
   "Yes," the second said, "to have heard Mark Twain lecture, attended Eugene O'Neill's opening nights, seen the first lift-off from Cap Kay—"
   Psychos,Sylvie thought as they carried her into the dining room.Psychos,but she wasn't surprised or frightened. She was spaced out, drifting.Like Oscar the Rhino.She smiled vaguely, remembering newscasts of Oscar being treated for toothache after the keepers had tranquilized him with darts from a special gun.
   They set Sylvie on the sofa where she could see the cabin's door. The woman was with a third man, dressed in gray but taller than the rest—a veritable giant. Incongruously, at an angle away from his body, a crucifix rode on his left shoulder.
   The woman smiled at Sylvie. "Excellent," she said. "Our Sylvia cannot be seen from the windows or door. Gentlemen at Arms, Master of Loth: posts please!" She walked outside. Full dark had fallen.
   Sylvie watched, obscurely interested, as the three men moved knowingly about the room. The armed mites disposed themselves in the center. Crouching under table and armchair they reminded Sylvie of her small nephews playing guns.
   The giant had taken his position against the wall by the door. Reaching his right hand to the crucifix he brought from behind his back a wide, pointless sword. Idly Sylvie measured his height against the massive Victorian sideboard. The giant was less than five and a half feet.
   The woman reentered the cabin, spoke to the swordsman and went out. The giant squatted on his heels, sword stretched out before him, his attitude restful. The woman returned, satisfied. She passed out of Sylvie's vision into the short hall leading to the bedrooms.
   The men were motionless. Time seemed not to decay in Sylvie's trance. She heard a car in the drive; footfalls on the porch. Patti opened the door, called her name, staggered and was caught by the miniature gunmen. They placed her on the sofa beside Sylvie and scuttled back under their table and chair.
   The woman came from the bedrooms wearing Sylvie's bathrobe clinched tightly to her body.Her hair, long andblonde like Patti's, was piled loosely atop her head. She wandered about the dining room, walked out and back from the kitchen and sat with a magazine by the largest window. She repeated the routine twice, spending most of her time near windows.
   The doorbell chimed.
   "Just a minute!" she called. As the woman crossed to the opening door, the swordsman slithered up the wall, lifting his sword. A man leaped into the cabin with a gun thrust before him. Sylvie saw that his face was strange. A lady's stocking was pulled over his head and tied in a knot at the crown. A foot of tan nylon fell over the man's right ear.Another psycho,Sylvie thought.
   The giant shifted his footing and the sword descended in a sweeping arc. It bit into the masked man's body between left collarbone and neck. The sword continued to descend, almost to the waist, pressing the body to the floor. It knelt with knees splayed, head lolling to the right and the squared-off blade pointing downward from the pit of its stomach.
   Red spots were bright on the whiteness of the bathrobe. the woman looked down, unlaced the cloth belt and slipped from it. Tossing the soiled garment to the swordsman who caught it in his right hand, she walked, naked, toward the bedrooms and out of Sylvie's placid gaze.
   The dwarfish gunners unrolled a slick black sack and forced it over the head and shoulders of the corpse. The swordsman eased his weapon from the still masked body's back, cleaning it on the bathrobe as it slid out.
   When the body was completely encased, one dwarf balled the robe, wiped a small pool of blood from the wood tile floor and stuffed the garment into the sausagelike bundle against the corpse's feet. He twisted the open end closed, increasing the resemblance to a wurst. Grasping the ends, thegunners carried it fromthe cabin. The swordsman, towering over them, braced the door open.
   Dressed again in her blue coverall and slippers, the woman entered the dining room. "Master of Loth," she said, "exhibit your instrument."
   The swordsman came to Patti and Sylvie. Standing before them, he held the sword at eye level. Slowly he passed one side of the blade through their gaze, then the other. The sword was like none Sylvie had seen in museums or movies or books.
   It was not a musketeer's rapier, a privateer's cutlass, a fencing foil, a Civil War saber or a knightly arm from the days of chivalry. The blade was almost rectangular giving it a stolid, thick look; but the edge was thin. With hardly any taper it ended in a square point. On one side were the names of months and days. Toward the point a throned Justice was finely engraved. Her eyes were unblinded and she held balance and pointed sword. The second side held only a droll saying:
   In skilled hands
   I make no headway.
   When the display was ended the swordsman sheathed his weapon across his back. The hilt was chiseled in the form of a crucifix with a winged figure head downward upon it. The grip rose for three palm-widths above the nailed feet.
   "Thank you, Master of Loth," the woman said. The swordsman turned and walked from the cabin.
   The woman stood in front of Patti and Sylvie, arms folded loosely under her breasts. "Ladies,'' she said, "you live in dangerous days. Mend your stupid ways." As she left the cabin the lock snicked shut behind her.

   BARRY N. MALZBERG
   Making It All the Way into the Future on Gaxton Falls of the Red Planet

   Barry Malzberg is as individualistic a writer as either Borges or Kafka. His creations are characteristically his. Perhaps it is in recognition of this, as well as merit, that he received the first John W. Campbell Memorial Award for the best science fiction novel of the year.

   July 14, 2115, and here we are in Caxton Fails of the famous red planet. Why we are spending this bright Bastille Day in Caxton Falls when we could be just six, make it seven kilometers away, celebrating more properly in Paris is beyond me but impulse must always be respected and so here we are. Down the midway we see fragments and artifacts of reconstructed Americana: lining our patharethe little booths and display halls where facets of that vanished time may be more closely observed. Betsy holds my hand tightly as well she may. Truly, she has never seen anything like this and neither, for that matter, have I.
   "Isn't this the most remarkable thing?" she says, referring, I suppose, to the fact that Caxton Falls is in most ways a faithful reconstruction of a medium-sized American city of 1974, one hundred and forty-one years ago, a wonderful time in which to be alive. "It just looks so real, Jack," she says and so it does, so it does indeed but I will not betray to her my own astonishment, concentrating as I am upon walking down the midway undisturbed by the blandishments and cries of the barkers who would have us stop at this stand, that display, these pieces of goods. It is a disgraceful thing what has happened to Mars; the place is a tourist trap. Truly one must be aware of this at all times: it was a grand thing to have colonized the planet fifty years ago and we will always be in the pioneers' debt. . . but fashions change, emphases shift and the good people generally steer clear of this place. We had to stop over.to make the Ganymede switch but once is enough. Mars is economically viable now only because of the tourist business, which in turn bears the result of the reconstruction committees of the hated nineties ... but all of this is boring, abstruse history. Even the rather colorful villages of Mars, the ruins I mean, do not move me and I cannot wait to get away from here. To some degree I hold it against Betsy that she responds to the place.
   Still: we are in Gaxton Falls and must make the best of a bad time. "Come in, sir," a man with a moustache calls to us through the sparse crowd, "come in and meet the iconoclast, do," and before I can protest, Betsy is tugging me by the hand toward the barker's stand which fronts a rather drab set of burlap curtains. "Fascinating and educational," the barker says, "and not only do you have a chance to hear the iconoclast speak, you may also argue with him, take exception to his points, get into a fascinating discussion." Like all the barkers he has a precise command of the idiom of this period although his pronounciation is foul. Obviously this man like so many of the others was imported from Venus where the excessive labor pool produces thousands like him. "What do you say, sir?" he says when we near him. His eyes are faintly desperate, his skin has a greenish cast from lack of sunlight. Clearly a Venusian.
   "Let's go in," Betsy says. Her ebullience is a cover for doubt and I feel a lurch of pity: better go along with her. I give the barker his asking price in scrip, two dollars and fifty cents for each of us, and still holding hands we duck within the curtains, feeling the threads of burlap coming out to caress us like fingernails and into the enclosure itself which, expectedly, is smaller and more odorous than the front would indicate. An enormous man sits behind a simple wooden table shaking his head. We are the only customers in the enclosure. As we enter he begins speaking in an empty, rehearsed drone.
   "We must abandon the space program," he says in the old accent, much better than the barker, "because it is destroying our. cities, abandoning our underprivileged, leading people toward the delusion that the conquest of space will solve their problems and it is in the hands of technicians and politicians who care not at all for the mystery, the wonder, the intricacies of the human soul. Better we should solve our problems on Earth before we go to the Moon." He rams the table. "We won't be ready for space until we've cleaned up our own planet, understood our own problem."
   "But don't you think," Betsy asks, entering into the spirit of this: an engaging girl, "that exploration is an important human need? We'll never solve our problems on Earth after all so we might as well voyage outward where the solutions might be." She squeezes my hand, pleased with herself. Indeed, her own mastery of the idiom is impressive although only guidebook deep.
   "Certainly not," the iconoclast says, "that's a ridiculous argument." He does not really look at her; I wonder if he is machinery. Some of the exhibits are and some are not; it is hard to tell humans, and the more sophisticated androids are interchangeable anyway. "The era of exploration and discovery has shifted to the arena of inner space. We must know ourselves or die. To continue the space program would be madness. Happily it is being abandoned."
   It is brief but I am already bored with this exhibit, which is rather predictable and limited. "That's nonsense," I point out. "You can't equate exploration with ignorance any more than your enemies could with knowledge."
   "But of course I can!" the iconoclast booms. His eyes belie the energy however, they are dull and withdrawn; he is deep, then into a programmed series of replies, and we are not discussing the matter but merely exchanging positions. "The two are exactly the same when you consider that the space program has produced in its fifteen years not one single positive contribution to the common lives of most men. Or women."
   "Not so!" says Betsy. "Think of lasers, life-support systems, advances in pacemaker technique, adaptation to weightlessness, psychological studies, rare alloys . . ."
   "No," the iconoclast says loudly. He pushes himself back from the table, his body sagging. Enormous: the exhibit must weigh over four hundred pounds. "That is specious and entirely wrong."
   "Enough," I say. Abruptly my boredom has turned into physical disgust and I want to leave. Caxton Falls is highly overrated and the iconoclast is typical of almost all its exhibits: cheap, programmatic, superficial. "We're going to leave."
   "Jack," Betsy says, her head wrenching one way, her body another. "We may hurt his feelings."
   "Don't be foolish," I say, using a double-lock on her wrist, "he's merely an exhibit, possibly an android, certainly hypnoprogrammed. He doesn't even know we're here; they wake up in a vat later. Anyway," I add, turning toward the iconoclast who has sat rigid through all of this, his face as bleak and empty as the sands which lie just to the rear of the Falls, stretching then into Paris, "besides you're a fool and you did not prevail. We returned to the Moon in 1980. We were on Mars by 1990. By 2050 we had established a scientific colony on Mars, a viable, self-supporting unit, had landed several times on Venus, were investing the rings of Saturn at close range and were preparing to drop the first ship on Ganymede. It was, in historical perspective, merely a sneeze, this mid-seventies interruption of the program. You did not prevail."
   The iconoclast puts his palms flatly on the table, tries awkwardly to rise, falls back into his flesh, gasping. Respiration makes his arms billow, he seems excited. Have I broken the program? "Tot/ are the fool," he says. "The space program was abandoned for all time. The great riots of the 1980s destroyed all of the centers and equipment, leaving nothing. It will be thousands of years before men even think of going into space again.
   I look at him and see that he is serious. Whether programmed or working out of the program the iconoclast really believes this and I am filled with pity but pity has nothing to do with it. The air is dense. I want desperately to leave the tent. I tug Betsy by the hand, she swings like a pendulum and comes against me. The shock of the impact unbalances and I scramble on my knees, Betsy awkwardly straddling me. We cannot seem to disentangle.
   "You fools," the iconoclast says, "you poor fools, just look,look,"and it is as if the tent falls away, the burlap turning to glass, then mist: the burlap opening toward an endless perspective of the dead landscape of Mars; in that landscape I see the fires, the fires of the 1980s which destroyed the center forever. They sear and rip away; it is momentarily more than I can take, I claw to ground desperately, knowing that when I open them again this will have gone away and I will see Gaxton Falls and its midway again, all of this a seizure, but when I do open them, see again after a long time it is not the midway I see but the flap of the tent opening and as I stare, two people enter, one of them Betsy, and look at me. The other looks familiar although I cannot quite place him. He seems to be a reasonable man, however, and I will do what I can to bring him around.
   "We must abandon the space program," I say.

   ROBERT SHECKLEY
   Slaves of Time

   Always dryly witty, always first class, Sheckley's works have changed through the years from phenomenalistic to philosophical, a change landmarked by his novelDimension of Miracles.Today, from his home in the Balearic Islands, he is taking a longer, deeper look at reality, which produces the happy results of stories such as this one.

   Gleister Main Line Sequence Time Track One:
   Charlie Gleister had invented a time machine, but he hadn't invented it right because it didn't work. His machine was about the size of a white plastic shoe box. Its surfaces were covered with dials and switches and levers and buttons. It made funny noises when Charlie turned it on, and its glow bulbs flashed purple and green, and it made his skin tingle. But nothing else. Charlie's machine was a very good tingler and flasher and noisemaker, but it was not a good time machine. It didn't become that until later, after Charlie had gained enough insight from the future so that he could adjust the machine to work properly in the present. (There is a paradox involved in that, of course. Time travel is full of paradoxes. The universe runs on paradox-power.)
   So there was Charlie on a beautiful September afternoon in his basement laboratory on Apple Street in the unincorporated township of Harvest Falls, Indiana, tinkering with his machine and talking out loud to himself, saying things like, "Oscillation deployment factor...beat phase regeneration...infinite recycling amplitudes... second force reflection coefficient..." This is the veritable language in which genius communicates with itself, and Charlie was definitely a genius, even though Myra's father thought he was "a mite loco." Myra's father was the leading banker in Harvest Falls and a keen amateur psychometrician. Myra was Charlie's fiancée. Just now she was out for a drive with Carter Littlejohn, once the finest tailback in Hoosier history, now a locomotive salesman and the future father of Myra's illegitimate daughter, Hilda. Gleister's parents lived in a condominium in Jupiter, Florida, played Bingo every Friday night and wroteto Charlie on the first of every month. These people play no part in the story. Gleister also had an Uncle Max who lived in Key West and was known locally as the Pinochle King of the Conches. He also plays no part in the story. Nobody plays any real part in this story except Charlie Gleister, who plays entirely too large a part, or too many parts. But that's what happens when you begin to jump time tracks, as Charlie Gleister is about to do.
   In the meantime, however, he was seated at his workbench putting tiny components together and taking them apart again and getting grease on his white shirt and cursing mildly and waiting for a gestalt to form or an insight to occur or something to happen.
   And then something did happen. A voice behind him said, "Er, excuse me."
   Gleister Main Line Sequence Time Track One Plus Two:
   The hairs on the back of Gleister's neck stood erect. He knew that he had bolted the lab door. His hand closed idiotically on the handle of a micrometer weighing perhaps thirty grams. He turned slowly.
   "Didn't mean to startle you," the man behind him said, "but there was no other way. I've come about a very important matter."
   Charlie relaxed his grip on the deadly micrometer. The man did not seem to be a dope-inflamed mugger. He was a tall lanky man of about Charlie's own age, with a long, homely, good-natured face. He was holding a white plastic box covered with dials and switches and levers and buttons. There was something familiar about him.
   "Do I know you from somewhere?" Charlie asked.
   The stranger grinned and didn't answer. Charlie looked at him, taking in the white shirt stained with grease, the khaki slacks, the Thom McCann ripple sole shoes...
   "Oh my God," Charlie said, "you look just like me."
   "I am you," the stranger said. "Or you are me. Or, more accurately, we're both Charlie Gleister occupying different time tracks."
   "How can that be?" Gleister asked.
   "That's a silly question for you to ask," the other Gleister said, "seeing as how you have just invented the world's first time machine and are therefore the world's leading expert on the nature of time."
   "But I haven't invented it yet, not so that it works."
   "Sure you have. Or you will very soon, which comes to the same thing."
   "Are you certain about that? I seem to be doing something wrong. Could you give me a hint?"
   "Of course," the other Gleister said. "Just remember that reality is positional and that nothing happens for the first time."
   "Thanks," Gleister said doubtfully. "Let me see if I've got this straight. I'm going to get my time machine working soon, go into the future, then come back and meet myself just before I invent the time machine."
   The other Gleister nodded.
   "That's sort of weird, isn't it?" Charlie asked.
   "Not at all," the other Gleister said. "You come back to now in order to urge yourself not to invent the time machine."
   "Not to invent it?"
   "That's right."
   "Just a minute," Gleister said. "Let's start all over. I invent a time machine and go into the future and then come back to now and tell myself not to invent a time machine. Is that what I'm going to do?"
   "That's it. But you don't have to keep on referring to us both as 'I.' We're both Charlie Gleister, of course, but we are also separate individuals, since we occupy different time tracks and are/were/will undergo different experiences at different moments in subjective time. So even though we're the same people, that makes us different, since reality is positional."
   "I'll take your word for it," Gleister said. "Or my word for it...I think I'm getting a little hysterical...Why shouldn't I invent the time machine I invented?"
   "Because it will be used for evil purposes."
   "Could you be more specific?"
   "Just take my word for it. I have to get out of here now: you and I talking together in the past constitutes a regressive temporal paradox, which can be maintained for only a few minutes and then is self-canceling. Progressive temporal paradoxes are another matter, of course; but you'll learn all of this yourself. Just believe me, do yourself a favor, don't invent that time machine."
   The other Gleister began to shimmer faintly. Charlie called out, "Hey, wait! There's a couple of things---"
   "Sorry, I'm smack out of duration," the other Gleister said. The shimmering intensified and his figure grew transparent. "How do you like this for an exit?" the other Gleister asked, grinning self-consciously. "See you around."
   The other Gleister disappeared.
   Gleister Main Line Sequence Time Track One:
   After the other Gleister had gone, Charlie needed only a moment to decide not to not invent the time machine. He didn't like taking orders, not even from someone who called himself himself: which was arguable anyhow, since reality is positional. If it was so important not to invent a time machine, let the other Gleister not invent it.
   Charlie went to work immediately, and, knowing that the thing was possible, needed only two hours to get his time machine working properly. Nothing happens for the first time, especially if what you're trying to do is to invent something absolutely novel and unprecedented. Of course, if nothing happens for the first time, that leaves the apparent problem of how anything happens at all. But the difficulty is entirely semantic: in the eternal recurrence of subatomic configurations of which our world is a simulacrum, there is no question of beginnings or endings. There are only middles, continuations, repetitions. Originality is a concept possible only to a limited viewpoint.
   So there was Charlie with his fully operational time machine neatly encased in a white plastic box, and now he is going on a journey into the future. But how? Consider---time and space are potentially equivalent quantities. They can be transformed into each other via the deus ex machina of a time machine. Take a simple analogy. You have five oranges and three apples. You want to add them together. To do so, you must first convert apples into oranges or oranges into apples or both into something else. The formula for converting apples into oranges is Taste divided by Flavor plus the square root of Color multiplied by seeds squared. You handle space-time transpositions in the same way, but using the appropriate formula. A time machine is no more than a realtime space-into-time converter operating on recycling interface energy residues. The practical application is a little more complicated than that, of course, and only Charlie Gleister was ever able to make it work. That may seem to be a violation of the law of Eternal Recurrence; but Exceptionality is also subject to repetition, as will be seen.
   Gleister set the machine's controls for the limit of its forward ability---a matter of some millions of years of human time, or several hours from the viewpoint of a star, or a googol of chilicosms from the outlook of a Paramecium. He pushed the button. Something happened.
   At Gleister's level of awareness, he seemed to be traveling on a straight line extending between past and future; a line capable of countless branchings as chance or circumstance arose. But seen from a higher level of magnitude, a time track is a fixed orbit around some unimaginable center, and what feels like a deviation is mere perturbation in an inevitable circle. Only the macrocosmic outlook permits the fiction of straight lines and novelty; the microcosm is the realm of circularity and repetition. The interface between these different realities is coincidence. Rate of coincidence is a function of rate of speed. Travel fast enough and far enough and long enough and you get to see the cosmic scenery---the haunted landscapes of eternal recurrences.
   Gleister experienced a brief moment of vertigo (Quaestura Effect) and then, there he was, the world's first time traveler, standing in the unimaginably far distant future. Tremulously, he looked around him.
   The first thing he noticed were the policemen.
   Gleister Main Line Sequence Time Track One Variation A:
   ...determined to keep my eyes and ears open and my mouth shut. One of the first things I notice is the accommodation effect which regularizes my experience. (Inseparability of subject and object, constancy of sense-ratios.) It is all so familiar! I suppose that an electron, traveling from one atom to another, also expects to enter a realm of unimaginable novelty. But perhaps the scenery in every part of the universe is roughly similar; since one sees in accordance with who one is rather than with what is there.
   Linguistic accommodation as well. Are they speaking my language or am I speaking theirs? I can never know: the transaction cannot watch itself being transacted.
   I am in the town of Mingusville 32 S. There are at least four different sets of uniformed police on the streets---municipal, political, secret and special police. I am posing as a Nepalese sociology student writing a thesis entitled "The Ecstasy of Conformity." (This theme is acceptable to officialdom of any time period and explains away my chi-chi accent and lack of presentday knowledge.)
   Mingusville 32 S is a ramshackle place containing some interesting technological retrogressions: steam-operated vehicles burning dried cow dung, for example, as well as many horse-drawn vehicles (and mules, oxen, and even a few camels). Is this due to depletion of fossil fuels? And whatever happened to atomic power?
   Mingusville has a rudimentary communication system, but only officials have individual telephones. Electricity is scarce and expensive, and equipment maintenance is haphazard. I estimate that two-thirds of the homes use kerosene lighting. No structure is higher than three stories: cinderblock construction sometimes faced with brick or tile. Center of town is dominated by large open-air market facing gigantic police barracks. My impression is that the people around here lead uneventful, slothful, unchallenging lives. This is reflected in their willingness to drop whatever they're doing and talk for hours with a stranger such as myself.
   I learn that various diseases are endemic here: equivalents of trachoma, encephalitis, tick fever, etc. (Cholera and bubonic plague devastated this region six years ago.) There are many beggars in the streets, although this is forbidden by the Emperor. Blacks and whites are present in roughly equal quantities. I am unable to detect any appreciable difference in social status on a racial basis: everybody here seems to be equally deprived.
   Government is the only interesting game in town. One man rules the world---the Emperor Mingus. He maintains a standard police state. Mingus is your typical paranoid fascist, has everybody watching everybody else. There are cameras and recorders everywhere, miles of film and tape, legions of people monitoring all of this, other people monitoring the monitors, and so on and so on until you get to the Emperor, the ultimate monitor. I wouldn't have believed you could control a world in this way, but Mingus is giving it a pretty good try.
   He is aided in all this by a secret weapon. It seems that Mingus possesses a time machine. When something goes wrong, he can (subject to certain natural restrictions) go back in time and correct it. It's a hell of a good way to take out underground leaders: don't bother combing a city or countryside for them, just go back to before they went underground---to when they were children, say---and then kill them.
   The main restriction on all this is physical. Mingus has to do it all himself. He can't entrust the time machine to anyone else, because then that person could go back and kill Mingus and become Emperor himself.
   Even with this limit, the machine gives him absolute and uncanny powers. Yet in spite of it, there is a resistance movement. Not everybody can be located via time machine. The vulnerable ones have been weeded out already. Mingus's entire creaky organization is devoted to finding and destroying those enemies that Mingus cannot personally destroy.
   People tell me that the time machine looks like a shoe box. It is made of white plastic. People nightly curse Gleister, the fiend who invented the thing. The word "gleister" has entered all languages. "I'll gleister you" is the ultimate threat; "you damned gleister" is the ultimate insult.
   There is a great deal more to learn about this place, but it'll have to wait. I've just learned that I am an absolute and unmitigated gleister and that I have gleistered the human race but good. I must do something about it.
   Gleister Main Line Sequence Time Track One Variation A Continuation 12 plus Gleister Main Line Sequence Time Track 5 plus Gleister Minor Sequence 32:
   Gleister sat down on a bench in Mingus Memorial Park to think things over. What should he do? The first thing that occurred to him was to go back to just before he invented the time machine and not invent it. But that could not be done, to judge by the experience of the other Gleister. Not only can you not step into the same river twice; it is not even the same you who can't step into the same river twice. Everything modifies everything. There was no niche in the past waiting for him to come back and occupy it. Nature will tolerate a paradox, but she abhors a vacuum.
   There seemed to be no point in trying to go back and convince another Gleister not to invent the time machine. (Again!) There wasn't one Gleister to convince, anyhow; there were a multiplicity of potential Gleisters, each of them identical to him up to the moment of contact, and each of them different from him from that moment on. That too was inevitable: like the universe, the mind is a plenum constantly cycling its contents. A novel input redistributes the contents and changes their cycling rate. Gleister could remain himself only if he didn't interfere with himself.
   But the situation he had presented to the world was intolerable. He was determined to do something about it. But what should he do?
   He sat and thought, uncomfortably aware that at least one other Gleister had done the same thing. How many more Gleisters would sit on this spot and consider the alternatives?
   But that was defeatist thinking. From one viewpoint there were (potentially) a multiplicity of Gleisters; but from another viewpoint there was only one, and he was that one. After all, it didn't matter what these other people called themselves or where they came from, he was only the person he was here and now, the person whom he experienced. Reality is positional, ego is relational and nature doesn't deal in abstractions.
   What could he do, specifically? He could stay here in the future (which operationally was the present), assume a disguise and wait for a chance to strike a blow against the Emperor.
   He could go back fifty or a hundred years, to a time before Mingus's accession to power, locate the future Emperor as Mingus had located others, kill him.
   Or, if Mingus was able to protect himself through the powers of the time machine, Gleister could form an organization to overthrow the Emperor, starting his organization before the Emperor assumed power.
   It was impossible to juggle all of the variables presented by his various plans. He would just have to pick one and go with it. But which one? Aye, there was the rub: man proposes, but the hidden law of temporality disposes. Which plan? Random sampling---eenie meenie...
   Gleister looked up as a man sat down on the bench beside him. He was in his fifties, bearded, somberly dressed. He carried an attaché case. He looked like a businessman or a minor official.
   "You new around here?" the man asked.
   "Sort of new," Gleister admitted reluctantly. "I'm a student."
   "Where from?"
   "The University of East Bengal. The new one, not the old one. I'm here to do a study." Stop babbling, he ordered himself.
   "School days are the best time of all," the man said, smiling. "How well I remember my own."
   "Where did you go to school?" Gleister asked.
   "I attended the University of Ohio," the man said. "But I never did graduate. Too much work for me to do out there in the world. Ah well, it can't be helped."
   "No, it can't be," Gleister said. He was beginning to feel uncomfortable. He too had attended the University of Ohio.
   "What do you use that white box for?" the man asked abruptly. "School books?"
   "Yes. I mean no," Gleister said. "It's a little too small for books. I keep tapes of some of my lectures in there."
   "Is that a fact?" the man said. "You know, it's a weird coincidence. I've got one just like it." He opened his attaché case. Within it Gleister saw a white box identical to his own, cushioned in red velvet. Beside it, there was a large blue-steel automatic.
   The man picked up the automatic and pointed it at Gleister.
   "Hey, wait a minute, don't fool around with that thing," Gleister said. Already he was beginning to feel a faint twist of sickness in his stomach. He was afraid that he knew all too well what was happening.
   "Hand over that white box of yours," the man said. "Handle it real slow and don't try to push any buttons."
   "Who are you?" Gleister asked.
   "I'm known by various names in various regions of the Earth," the man said. "But I'm best known as Mingus."
   "You're the Emperor!" Gleister said.
   "At your service," the bearded man said. "Now, very slowly, give me the box."
   Gleister's forefinger rested on the operation button. He could feel the Emperor's eyes on his hand, daring him to press the button. Gleister remembered that there was a lag between turning the machine on and physically leaving a place. He decided that he had no chance at all. Slowly he began to extend the white box.
   "That's it, slow and easy," the Emperor said.
   Then Gleister noticed a shimmering in the air some ten feet behind the Emperor. Something was about to happen, and, considering the circumstances, it could only help Gleister.
   "Look," he said, "can't we talk this over? Maybe we could reach a compromise."
   "What are you up to?" Mingus's forefinger tightened on the trigger. An involuntary movement of Gleister's eyes warned him that something was happening. He whirled just as another Gleister materialized behind him.
   The Emperor fired at the new arrival at pointblank range, but with no apparent effect. Charlie Gleister, noticing the faint red haze around the newcomer, had realized in an instant that it was not an actual corporeal person; obviously, to the trained eye, it was a solidified pseudo-doppler reflection caused by Gleister's passage through time. As he watched, the image disappeared.
   The Emperor turned toward him again; but Gleister had already punched the OPERATE button of his time machine.
   Gleister Main Line Sequence Time Track One Sub One Low Probability Closed Loop 12:
   Nothing goes right when you're in a hurry. Charlie Gleister hit the OPERATE button so hard that he broke the interlock on the OVERRIDE assembly. Unrationalized power surged crazily through the time machine, turning the primary circuits into roulette accelerometers, and causing an instant multiplication of geometric accumulators. Energy flooded the available networks of n-dimensional pasts/ presents/futures, then searched for new outlets and found them by jumping an entire magnitude---to the universe of low-probability actualities.
   When Gleister came to himself, he was standing on a flat, featureless plain. The glaring white sky above pulsated with bulges of darkness. He could hear a low, melancholy crooning. It seemed to come from a piece of white limestone rock near his right foot.
   "Is that you singing?" Gleister asked.
   "Yeah, baby, it's me," the limestone rock answered in a deep mournful voice. "I been singing the blues ever since the world began."
   "How long has that been?" Gleister asked.
   "About three hundred years, close as I can figure it. You got any idea what or where or why this place is?"
   "I can make an educated guess," Gleister said. "It seems reasonable to hypothesize that we are in a low-probability universe. The theoretical existence of such a place is quite certain. High and low probability are terms of statistical intuition relative to our experience, of course. Do you follow me so far?"
   "Well, baby, not too closely," said the limestone rock. "When you said an educated guess, you really meant educated. Could you maybe put it into English for me?"
   "Well...in my own particular case there was like one hell of an explosion and I was blown clean out of the world into this place."
   "Hey, that's just what happened to me," said the limestone rock. "How I came to be playing tenor sax in the Wigwam Club in downtown Hiroshima on that fateful day in 1945 is a story which I won't go into right now. You got any idea how we get out of here?"
   "I think we must simply wait until it happens," Gleister said. "In normal high-probability terms, there's not much chance of that happening. But if this is a universe where low-probability is the law, then all odds are reversed and our chances for getting out of here are very good indeed."
   "Ask a man a serious question and he jives me," the limestone rock said.
   "No, I meant what I said quite seriously."
   "In that case, baby, and excuse my saying it, you are a real weirdo."
   "At least I'm not a limestone rock," Gleister said, then added hastily, "not that I consider you in any way inferior because of your igneous appearance."
   "Sure, baby, sure," the limestone rock said, with sarcasm so thick that you could cut it with a knife and spread it on a piece of Tibetan barley bread that had just appeared on the low oaken bench that supported the various instruments that Gleister needed to make a reasonable assessment of the validity of his previous statements.
   In a universe of non-sequiturs---which is what low-probability is all about---it is difficult to find continuities, tough to keep a grip on sequences, hard to hang on to certainties. Historically, the low-probability levels have been considered paradise. They are the vacation spots of the hashishin, the mystagogue, the doper. They are usually fun places, which is why most people can't get into them.
   There are some low-probability worlds in which nothing much happens and the whole thing is as boring as being kept after school. But usually, a good time is enjoyed by all.
   Gleister's world was a pretty good place. There were always a lot of girls around, asking, "Hey, man, is this Katmandu?" A big rock candy mountain appeared, and a pibil tree, and the congestion cleared up around the synapses affording a view all the way to the lemon factory.
   As the limestone rock remarked, "Maybe it ain't reality, but it'll just have to do until the real thing comes along."
   So it was with a definite sense of regret that Gleister saw one morning, emblazoned across the sky, the words: "Th-th-th-th that's all, folks!" Quickly he said goodbye to the limestone rock, now revealed as an anti-Gleisterian particle, and to the girls, who were in actuality anima-Gleisterian wave forms. Then he held his breath, quite unnecessarily, for the brief transition that followed.
   Gleister Main Line Sequence plus Multiple Time Track Conjunctions:
   Gleister surfaced in a large, dusty, crowded auditorium located (as he learned later) in the Crich-Kridarin foothills near the ruins of Norfolk. It was some 234 years before the accession of the Emperor Mingus.
   There were perhaps a hundred men in the auditorium. Most of them looked like Gleister. This was only reasonable, since all of themwere Gleister.
   Charlie Gleister learned that these people were trying to hold a meeting, but couldn't figure out how to do it. Obviously, they needed someone to act as chairman: but how can you have a chairman without first having an organization to elect him with? And how can you have an organization without a chairman to be elected by it? It was a perplexing problem, especially for the Gleister line, which had never been strong on social studies.
   Everyone turned to Charlie Gleister, who, as the newest arrival, might have some ideas on the subject.
   "Well," Charlie said, "I read once that among the Flathead Indians, the tallest brave was usually chosen to lead the war party or the hunting party or whatever there was to do. Or maybe it was among the Shoshones."
   All the Gleisters nodded in vigorous agreement. They had all known that, of course; they just hadn't thought about it.
   In no time at all the tallest Gleister was found, elected Chairmanad hoc and pro tem and sent up to the stage.
   "I hereby call this meeting to order," the tallest Gleister said. "Look, before we get to anything else, it seems to me that we simplycannot all keep on calling ourselves 'Charlie Gleister.' It's simply too confusing. For purposes of communication between us, I suggest we all take on different first names. What do you think about that?"
   There was a loud murmur of agreement.
   "May I suggest that we each try to pick an unusual name," the Chairman said, "since fifty Toms or Georges wouldn't be much of an improvement over a hundred Charlies. I will start the ball rolling by calling myself Egon. I declare a fifteen-minute recess while the rest of you christen yourselves."
   After a moment's thought, Charlie Gleister (the one whose time-track we've been following) named himself Hieronymous. He shook hands with Michelangelo Gleister on his right and Chang Gleister on his left. Then the Chairman called the meeting to order.
   "Members of the Gleister Coequality Line of Potentialities," Egon said, "I bid you welcome. Some of you have searched for and found this place, others stumbled across it apparently by accident, others found themselves here while going somewhere else. This definitely appears to be a Gleister collection-point, for reasons that escape me at the moment. However, let that be. I think I am expressing the common sentiment when I name this the Time-Space Center for Resistance to the Rule of the Emperor Mingus. The Emperor probably knows about this place and what we're up to. We are the only serious threats to his reign. Many of us have had inexplicable near-fatal accidents at some point before inventing the time machine. Some of those were surely caused by Mingus. We may expect other attempts on our lives.
   "That's about all I have to say. I would welcome remarks from the floor."
   A man stood up and identified himself as Chalmers Gleister. "Has anyone learned the identity of this Mingus?"
   "Not to my knowledge," Egon Gleister said. "He has concealed his origins most effectively. There is an official biography which states that the Emperor was born in Clearwater, Florida, the only child of Anton and Myra Waldheim."
   "Has anyone checked this?" Chalmers asked.
   A man stood up. "Marcos Gleister. I looked into it. I can tell you that Clearwater was demolished some thirty years before Mingus's rule, when the Sage Creek reactor went up."
   "Did you attempt to go to Clearwater before its destruction?"
   "I tried," Marcos said, "but I didn't learn anything positive. The Waldheim family might not have been living there at that time, or evidence may have been concealed or Mingus might have picked Clearwater as a convenient cover."
   Chalmers asked, "Has anyone gone to the Hall of Records in Washington, or the Library of Congress, or whatever their equivalents are now? If the Waldheim records have been removed, it will be important negative evidence as to Mingus's identity."
   "It hasn't been done yet," said Chairman Egon Gleister, after waiting for a response from the audience. "Perhaps you would care to take on the assignment"
   "I wouldn't know how to begin," Chalmers said.
   "None of us would. Our collective talents lie in other directions. But the job ought to be done."
   "Very well, I'll try," Chalmers said sulkily, and sat down.
   There was a great deal of general discussion after that. The Gleisters were thoroughly confused about time travel, its possibilities, ramifications, limits and consequences. Nor could they reconcile the various types and aspects of temporality which they had encountered---subjective time, objective time, past time, future time, multiple time rates, and the paradoxical crossing and recrossing of time tracks. What was the past, what was the future? Were "past," "present," and "future" no more than fictions---false separations imposed upon a unified field? And if that were so, how could an individual time traveler orient himself? The situation seemed comparable to a mad chess game in which either opponent could correct any previous moves at any time, in a game which had perhaps been concluded before it had begun.
   Hieronymous Gleister---still our hero despite certain technical difficulties in differentiation and identification---had not paid much attention to the discussion. He was watching the audience, for the Gleisters seemed nearly as remarkable to him as time travel itself.
   There were Gleisters of every apparent age between twenty and sixty years. All possessed the same somatotype. Beyond this, their differences were more striking than their similarities.
   Each Gleister had experienced similar stresses and influences, but at different subjective moments. Events had come upon each man at a particular and unique moment in psychotime, polarizing and modifying the whirling Lullian wheels of his internal world system, producing in each man new and unexpected emotional configurations, modifying and delineating him, and turning him into an individual unlike all the other Gleisters.
   To judge by appearances, there were frightened Gleisters and courageous Gleisters, high-strung ones and phlegmatic ones, sociable and solitary ones, clever and confused ones.
   As he was thinking about these things, a man stood up and introduced himself as Mordecai Gleister. He asked permission to address the audience on certain urgent matters. Egon invited him to the stage.
   "I will make my remarks brief," Mordecai said. "It seems to me that the matter of the Emperor has not been impartially examined. We have blindly assumed that the man and his goals are evil. Yet is this so evident? Consider---"
   Hieronymous Gleister stared at him. He had seen this confident, bearded man in his fifties before. But where?
   Then it came to him.
   Hieronymous Gleister stood up and ran to the stage. "Grab that man!" he shouted. "He's Mingus! He's the Emperor!"
   Egon hesitated for a moment, then made his decision. He and Hieronymous moved toward Mordecai Gleister. Several other Gleisters were on their feet and climbing on to the stage. Then everyone stopped.
   Mordecai Gleister had taken a blue-steel automatic out of his pocket and was aiming it at Egon.
   "Please resume your seats," Mordecai said. "All except Chairman Egon and this young man, whose lives depend upon your good behavior. I have a statement to make."
   Everyone sat down except for Egon and Hieronymous. Mordecai said, "This weapon I am holding is not a projectile weapon, though it is housed in the case of a Colt .45 automatic. It is an invention of mine---or ours---which operates on a laser-diffusion principle. At fifteen feet its first effect is paralysis; death follows seconds later if the beam is not turned off. Whatever you decide to do now, you should take this weapon into your calculations."
   Mordecai paused to let his words take effect. Then smiling, he said, "My worthy brothers and loyal subjects, the Emperor Mingus greets you."
   Main Lines Junction No. 2:
   "My reading of the situation," Mingus said, "is that I invented a time machine and went to a point in the distant future. I underwent various experiences there which shaped my subsequent decisions. The world I came to was a sad, brutish place, depleted of its physical and mental resources, divided into tiny, squabbling kingdoms. I took over. The time machine gave me matchless power, of course. But my success was due to more than that: the times were right for organization, and I was the right man for the job.
   "Those of you who have seen a little of my empire don't think much of it. But you judge too quickly. You forget the materials I had to work with. I assure you that I aim toward peace and prosperity for everyone; yes, and political freedom as well, as soon as men have the intelligence and self-control to use it.
   "You think that my empire looks like a twentieth-century Latin American or African dictatorship. Granted. But when I took over, this world was in chaos. There was no peace, and strength was the only recognizable law. I have given people a measure of security and continuity from which to rebuild a civilization.
   "All of us here are products of American democracy. 'Empire' and 'Emperor' are dirty words to us. But I earnestly request that you not judge my work by political reflex. What would you have had me do? Extend the vote to the serfs and slaves and abolish the robber-barons? Even with the time machine I wouldn't have lasted a week.
   "Should I have lectured them on all men being equal? Those people knew that all men were not equal, and that justice was the exclusive prerogative of the ruling class. They viewed all egalitarian ideas as devilish perversions, to be resisted to the death.
   "Democracy is not natural law. Men must be educated to it. Democracy is a difficult and advanced concept for men whose instinct is to band together in wolf packs under a single leader. Effective democracy requires the exercise of responsibility and fairness to others. For the people of the future Earth, this was an outlandish concept; others were there only to be used.
   "Given this state of affairs, what would any of you have done? Would you have witnessed the misery and squalor of the world and turned away from it, returning to your own happier times? Or would you have stayed and put together a token democracy, to be overwhelmed as soon as you were no longer in physical control? Or would you have done as I did---formed the only political organization that the people could understand, and then tried to educate them in the difficult practices of freedom and responsibility?
   "I did what I thought was best for the people, not for myself. I took over. But then you Gleisters---my alter egos, my brothers---kept coming up from the past, bent upon assassinating me. I tried to kidnap some of you and re-educate you. But there were too many Gleisters, the dynamics of the situation were against me.
   "I learned about your organization. I came back here and infiltrated it. I have taken it over now.
   "I have explained the situation as fairly as I can. I most sincerely beg you to cooperate with me, assist me, help me to change a regressed and savage Earth into the sort of place we have all dreamed of."
   There was a long silence. At last Chairman Egon Gleister said, "I believe there may be considerable merit in what you have explained to us."
   Hieronymous asked, "Have you forgotten already what you saw in his future? All of the suspicion and misery, and all those police!" He turned to Mingus. "Why don't you just leave them alone? I really don't care what your motives are. Hasn't Earth had enough emperors, dictators, generalissimos, war lords, Great Khans, Shahinshahs, Caesars, whatever you want to call them? Some of them had admirable motives---but the only people they really helped were themselves."
   "I suppose you feel that a state of anarchy is preferable?" Mingus asked.
   "I think it probably is," Hieronymous said. "The main defect of anarchy is its vulnerability to people like you."
   There was no sound at all from the audience. Hieronymous went on: "In any event, it's not your age your tampering with, it's someone else's. You come here from the happy and enlightened twentieth century and impose your obsolete political solutions on them. Really, Mingus, you're acting just like any other colonizer."
   Mingus appeared shaken. "I must think about this. I honestly believed..." He shook his head irritably. "It is strange," he said, "that all of us are one person, yet we represent widely differing viewpoints."
   "It's not so strange," Egon said. "One person is many people even under normal circumstances."
   Hieronymous said, "Perhaps we should call for a vote on what the Gleisters are to do---if you think we are civilized enough to vote."
   "Taking power is a responsibility," Mingus said. "But giving power up is equally a responsibility. This will require careful thought on my part."
   "Perhaps not," Egon said. "Perhaps you won't have to think about it at all."
   "Why do you say that'" Mingus said.
   The Chairman smiled and said, "I think you have made a fatal misreading of the sequence of events. By coming back here, you have ceased to be the Emperor. So there is nothing for you to think about."
   "Explain yourself," Mingus said. "Who is the real Emperor then?"
   "There is no 'real' emperor," Egon told him. "There is only a Gleister who went to the future, seized power and became Emperor. He found himself opposed by an organization, returned to the past in an attempt to take over the organization. He was killed in the attempt."
   "Be careful," Mingus said.
   "There's nothing to be careful about," Egon said. "We know that time travel necessarily involves duplication. One law we are sure of, governing time travel and its events, is: nothing happens for the first time. You, my dear Mordecai, have the honor of having been the first Emperor. But it can't remain that way. Since time travel is involved, there must be a second Emperor for the Emperor-line of probability to take place at all."
   "And you think that the first Emperor dies?" Mingus asked.
   "Or goes into retirement, perhaps," Egon said. "Give me the gun."
   "You crown yourself Emperor?"
   "Why not? I'm a Gleister, and therefore a legitimate heir to the royal line. Give me the gun and I'll let you go in peace."
   Hieronymous said urgently to Mordecai-Mingus, "Do it. Give him the gun. He's right, time travel necessitates the overdetermination of events. There must be a second Emperor."
   "Very well," Mordecai-Mingus said. "I'll give you the gun. And since you are the future Emperor, you won't mind which end you get first."
   He aimed the gun at Egon and pulled the trigger. A look of shock came over Mordecai's face. He went rigid, then fell. The gun dropped from his hand and clattered across the floor, coming to rest at Hieronymous's feet.
   Hieronymous picked up the weapon. He bent over Mordecai for a moment, then looked at Egon. "He's dead."
   Egon said, "We seem to have a new Emperor."
   "We do indeed,"' Hieronymous said, and handed the gun to him butt-first.
   Gleister Emperor Line No. 2:
   "That's good of you, cousin," Egon said, hefting the weapon. "You have no imperial ambitions, then?"
   "Ambitions, but not imperial ones. Besides, Egon, I've had a premonition."
   "I'm not Egon anymore," the Chairman said. "For the sake of symmetry, I'm renaming myself Mingus...What was your premonition?"
   "I thought I heard a voice say: 'The Emperor is the slave of time.'"
   "Just that and no more?"
   "That's all I heard," Hieronymous said.
   "How strange, dark and ominous," the new Mingus said, grinning. "How do you interpret it?"
   "It hints at something unpleasant, but I don't know what. Take it for what it's worth."
   "Well," Mingus said. "You have given me an oracle and an empire, and I thank you most kindly for both, but especially the Empire. Now, what can I do for you?"
   "You grant me an imperial boon?"
   "Yes, anything."
   "Then go rule your Empire, and let me and the rest of us do what we have to do."
   "It's doubtless unwise," Mingus said, "but I'll do it. God knows what complications would ensue if I started killing Gleisters. Just remember---"
   Mingus stopped. A man had just materialized onto the stage beside him.
   Main Lines Junction No. 3:
   The man was old, he had a gray beard and a ravaged face. His eyes were shadowy and lined.
   "Who are you?" Mingus demanded.
   "I am you, Egon. I am Mordecai, I am Hieronymous, I am the others. I am the Emperor you will become. I have come here to beg you to abdicate now and change what still can be changed."
   "Why should I do that'" Mingus asked.
   "Because the Emperor is the slave of time."
   "That makes no sense whatsoever, old man. Who are you really? Hieronymous, this looks like the sort of theatrical stunt you might come up with someday."
   "I can give no promise for the behavior of my old age, if that's what this is."
   "Abdicate," the old man said.
   "Nobody likes a nag," Mingus said, aimed his gun and fired.
   There was no apparent effect. The old man shook his head irritably. "I can't be killed---not here, not now, not by you! Reality is positional, as you will learn when you grow up. Now I must return to my work."
   "What work is that?" Hieronymous asked.
   "All slaves perform identical meaningless work," the old man said, and disappeared.
   Mingus rubbed his chin irritably. "Nothing like a ghost to keep the comedy moving! Hieronymous, are you going somewhere?"
   Hieronymous had been adjusting his time machine. He looked up and said, "I'm going on a trip."
   "Where?"
   "To visit an old friend."
   "Who? What are you talking about?"
   "You'll see, in good time."
   Mingus said, "Wait, Hieronymous! Stay with me and help me build a true civilization. We'll do it your way."
   "No," Hieronymous said, and pushed the button.
   Main Lines Junction No. 4:
   This time Gleister came out near Krul in the late years of the Mingus Imperium. He bartered clothing for money and took the day coach to Washington. From the station he walked to the White House, seat of Imperial power and now a Byzantine city within a city. He told the sergeant of the Exterior Guard to announce him to the Emperor.
   "What kind of a joke is this?" the sergeant said. "Put your petition through proper channels."
   "Announce me for the sake of your own continued welfare," Gleister said. "Tell him that Hieronymous is here."
   The sergeant was skeptical, but unwilling to take a risk. He rang up the captain of the guard, who contacted the commandant of the guard. Nothing happened for ten minutes, then things began to happen very quickly.
   "I beg your pardon," the sergeant said. "I'm new at this post. I hadn't received the standing order concerning you. Please come this way, sir."
   Hieronymous was led through winding gray corridors, into an elevator, through more corridors, to a steel-plate door painted crimson. The sergeant let him in and closed the door behind him.
   Hieronymous was in a small white audience room. There was a man present, seated at a small table. The man stood up when he entered.
   "It's good to see you again," Egon-Mingus said.
   "Good to see you, too," Hieronymous replied. "How fares the Empire?"
   "Well...it's not too successful, as you perhaps foresaw. In fact, it's disastrous." Mingus smiled painfully. He was old now, a tall man with a gray beard and ravaged eyes.
   "What's the trouble?"
   "Don't you know?"
   Hieronymous shook his head. "I had a premonition, not a vision. Are Gleisters still trying to overthrow you?"
   "Yes, yes, of course," Mingus said. "I don't even bother trying to stop them. Our family possesses a deep-seated ineptitude where politics are concerned. The Gleisters have no head for intrigue! They come into my empire in their twentieth-century clothing, brandishing strange weapons and talking in concepts the populace can't understand. People think they represent some mad foreign overlord, or are just plain crazy. At the first opportunity they turn them over to the police."
   "And what do you do with them?"
   "I educate them."
   "Ah!"
   Mingus made a face. "I hope you don't think I'm using a euphemism for violence. I assure you that I educate them most conventionally, with lectures, guided tours, films and books. Then I find some place in the Empire for them to stay."
   "Do they all choose to live here?"
   "Most of them. One must live somewhere, after all, and their original places in their own time are occupied by other Gleisters."
   "Well...That sounds all right. What's the trouble?"
   "Hieronymous, you need some education yourself! Maybe you should go on the guided tour."
   "Just tell me about it."
   "Very well. It's actually quite simple. The first or original or Ur-Gleister built a time machine and went into the future. Nature, which tolerates a paradox but abhors a vacuum, was left with a hole in the space-time fabric. A Gleister was missing from his normal position. Nature, therefore, supplied an identical or near-identical Gleister from wherever she keeps the spare parts."
   "I know all of this," Hieronymous said.
   "You haven't thought it through to the end. Each time a Gleister uses a time machine there is a displacement, another hole in the space-time fabric, which Nature fills by producing yet another Gleister."
   "I'm beginning to understand," Hieronymous said.
   "Now we have numerous Gleisters," Mingus went on, "all whizzing around on their various missions. We have a Gleister-sequence that becomes the Emperor, another sequence that forms an organization against the Emperor. And there are other sequences. Each sequence involving time travel results in the duplication of a Gleister. Each new Gleister time travels and is instrumental in the creation of more new Gleisters."
   Mingus paused to let that sink in, then said: "Gleisters are being produced at a geometric rate."
   "Well," Hieronymous said, "that's a hell of a lot of Gleisters."
   "You still don't grasp the scale," Mingus said. "Geometric progressions tend to get out of hand very early. Hundreds become thousands, thousands become millions, which become trillions and quadrillions. Do you get it now?"
   "I get it," Hieronymous said. "Where do they all go?"
   "They come here," Mingus said. "There's really no other place for them to go."
   "And where do you put them?"
   "I've managed to house about twelve million to date. But the Empire is running out of resources, and they're coming thicker than ever!"
   "Is there no way of stopping them?"
   Mingus shook his head. "Even if the Army shot them on sight, we couldn't control the mounting progression. Soon there will be nothing but Gleisters; the Earth will be carpeted in Gleisters, and new ones will continue to pour in. The Emperor is truly the slave of time."
   "What have you done about a solution?"
   "Everything possible. I'm open to suggestions."
   "The only thing that occurs to me," Hieronymous said, "is that the original Gleister must be killed before he can invent the time machine."
   "It can't be done. Many of us have tried, but we can't get back far enough in time. We can only encounter Gleister after the invention. And each Gleister who goes back and fails further expands the progression."
   "Yes, I see."
   "Do you have any ideas?"
   "Only one, and I don't much like it."
   Mingus waited. Hieronymous said, "As it stands now, the Gleister-series is an infinite expansion. Therefore a limit must be introduced in order to make the series capable of termination."
   "What limit'"
   "Death is the only natural limit," Hieronymous said. "Termination must be introduced as early as possible in the series, so that it will expand simultaneously with the series, render it self-limiting, and finally self-canceling."
   "Many of us have died," Mingus said. "It hasn't effected the expansion."
   "Of course not. All the Gleister-deaths so far have been normal terminations of individual time tracks. What is needed is an early death out of continuity---a suicide."
   "In order to introduce a short-term recycling death factor," Mingus said. "Suicide...Yes. It will be my final imperial act."
   "Not yours, mine," Hieronymous said.
   "I am still the Emperor," Mingus said. "It is my responsibility."
   "You're too old, for one thing," Hieronymous said. "A young Gleister must die as early in his time track as possible."
   "Then we'll draw lots among the younger Gleisters."
   Hieronymous shook his head. "I'm afraid it must be me."
   "Would you mind explaining why?"
   "At the risk of seeming egotistical," Hieronymous said, "I must tell you that I believe that I am the original Gleister, and only my suicide can end what I began."
   "Why do you think you are the original Gleister?"
   "It's an intuition."
   "That's not much to go on."
   "No, but it's something. Do you have an intuition like that?"
   "No, I don't," Mingus said. "But I don't believe that I'm---unreal!"
   "You're not," Hieronymous said. "We're all equally real. I'm just the first, that's all."
   "Well...It doesn't matter, I suppose. I hope that you're right."
   "Thanks," Hieronymous said, setting his time machine. "Do you still have that laser gun?" Mingus handed it to him and Hieronymous put it in his pocket. "Thanks. I'll be seeing you."
   "That seems unlikely."
   "If my assumptions are correct," Hieronymous said, "then you will have to see me again."
   "Explain that!" Mingus said. "That makes no sense..."
   But Hieronymous had pushed the button and was gone.
   Gleister Main Line Sequence Termination No. 1:
   It was a beautiful September afternoon in Harvest Falls, Indiana. Charlie Gleister walked past Apple Street and looked wistfully at the white frame house in which he had had his laboratory. He thought about going in and having a word with himself, but decided against it. He'd had his fill of Gleisters.
   He continued walking, out of town on Route 347. Cars passed him, but he didn't try to hitch a ride. He didn't have far to go.
   He turned off the route and crossed a stubbled field. He went through woods and came to a little brook. He had fished here as a boy, catching an occasional sunfish. The big oak tree was still where he remembered it, and Charlie sat down and leaned his back against it.
   He took out the gun and looked at it. He felt numb, self-conscious. He rubbed his nose and looked at the sunlight on the water for several minutes.
   Then, irritably, he said, "All right, let's get it over with." He put the muzzle of the gun in his mouth, gagging slightly over the taste of oily metal. He shut his eyes and pulled the trigger and died.
   Gleister Series Initial Termination Recycling:
   Charlie Gleister opened his eyes. The imperial audience room was as he had remembered it. On a table in front of him were the latest statistics: over twelve million Gleisters settled to date, more coming every minute. He shook his head and ran his fingers absentmindedly through his beard. Then he looked at the young man standing in front of him.
   "Good luck," he said, and handed him the laser gun.
   Egon Gleister said, "Thank you," pushed the button on his time machine, and was gone.
   Alone, Charlie looked around the audience room. He would have to accustom himself to imperial duties, for of course he had to take his turn as Emperor, just as all the others would have to do. He and they would have to take all of the Gleister roles as the termination proceeded, until at last only he was left, in the end as in the beginning.
   But for now he was the Emperor, and that might be interesting. He was grateful that he had gotten the suicide-part out of the way. He would have to do it again, of course; but not yet, not until all the others had done it.

   BILL GARNETT
   Singular


   American-born, British-raised Bill Garnett came to science fiction after years in television and advertising. Fleeing London, the way other writers flee New York City, he is now settled in an eighteenth-century hill-farm near the Scottish border where, between strenuous bouts of hunting, chess playing and dry stone wall building, he found the time to write an excellent science fiction novel (Down Bound Train). He writes a mean short story too.

   The woman lay in her sleep-sling and watched the stars through the roof above her.
   Already they were paling, the sky coming bright with dawn. Soon it too would lose definition, as filters came on in the roof and turned it opaque to screen out the ultra-vi of day. As always, it had rained in the night and now, through open parts of her walls, she could smell the wet of the grass, hear the wet morning song of a bird.
   Perhaps this would be the day.
   She shifted slightly in the sling and imagined the life within her flutter. Unconsciously, her fingers moved across her belly tracing what was within it. She loved this unborn, wanted it. But nine months was waiting enough. She missed the double sling, the hard length of man in the night. More, she missed the once lightness of her body, the spring of it. And the sharp clear of her mind. She smiled in the dawn. The last few months her thoughts had been like cloud waves: floating peaceful—but scattered.
   "You awake, mom?"
   The woman turned her head, saw her five-year-old son just a meter away. Typical of my pregnant vagueness, she thought—I didn't even sense him standing there.
   "I am now," she smiled at him.
   "What do snakes eat, mom?"
   She looked at his face, solemn and concentrating, and loved it. Just behind him, through an open part of the wall, she registered the rising sun. "Snakes? Well now—I'm not sure, honey. Why?"
   "There's one come in below and\thought maybe he was hungry."
   That was Mark all over, considerate of everything that breathes, she thought. Of course it was only proper—but still good to see already in one so young. She smiled more. "Try candy, darling."
   "Right!" And he was gone.
   The woman stretched. Carefully she let herself down from the sleep-sling and padded across the room. She stood in a corner there and after a second water came on round her body. She let it play on her, gazed out through a wall opening at long curves of living green and brown that flowed to the flow of far sea. There were dwellings out there, many dwellings, but so made one with the land that, even though she knew where they were, she could not see them.
   She stepped from the water and went to the wall opening and stood there and let a faint breeze from it dry her body a little. Then she wondered how Mark was getting on with his snake and turned and walked out of the room to the landing—and then downramp to the area below.
   She found him in the general area. Lying on the body-warm soft floor. He was on his stomach trying to tempt the snake out from beneath a sitting elevation with a stick of candy. She went a little closer, saw the coiled reptile more fully—and as she did, the baby in her womb kicked violently and simultaneously she had a sick feeling even deeper within her. She'd seldom felt it, but knew what it was—fear—and at once she was ashamed and angry. The feeling was irrational. The snake would not harm Mark. It was unthinkable. Why, nothing, no one had ever intentionally hurt another creature. Ever. It was undone. Unknown. And the snake was beautiful too. Superbly colored and she guessed anything up to two meters long, with a flat triangular head and a fascinating tail that looked like it belonged to something else: a strange sort of seashell maybe, made up as it was of those horny interlocking rings.
   But still she was afraid.
   "Mark! Come away from that!" her voice was unnaturally harsh.
   He turned on his side and looked round at her in surprise. "But mom . . ."
   "Come away!"
   Puzzled but obedient, the boy backed off and stood. The woman stepped to him then, put an arm round his shoulder and led him out of that area to the one where they ate. They sat opposite each other there and broke bread and took fruit. The boy's face was a question but she could find no answer for how she had been and instead she told him:
   "The baby may come today."
   He nodded with the wisdom of the young.
   "So you won't worry if I'm not back tonight?"
   He frowned. "Why should I?"
   Of course, she thought. Why on earth should he worry? It was just her. Being silly yet again. She smiled and reached over and ruffled his head. "Good boy." She finished her fruit then and got up to leave. As she reached the area opening she heard him speak behind her and turned.
   "Make it a girl, huh, mom?" he grinned.
   "Do my best," she smiled back. And went out.
   She stood by her dwelling's outer opening and looked away over the land. The sun was full up now and steaming the night's rain from the grass in thin mist that rose belly high. She stepped out into it, feeling the clean of this morning fill her with exhilaration. And she moved over the moist turf briskly with springing stride.
   This is the last-minute surge of energy, she thought, so it can't be very long now. She walked a little faster. Then, on impulse, stopped and looked back. With satisfaction she noticed her dwelling was already almost invisibly integrated into the country behind her. She walked on. Feeling increasingly healthy. Better now than at any time during her pregnancy. Yes, it must certainly mean the baby would be coming very soon. That was good. Though a shame in a way also because now she'd have to miss this night's meeting. She thought of the mind-music.
   Sharing. Everyone gathered in a silence till their thoughts began to merge to—a sensation perhaps, a knowledge. It would grow and evolve among them and fill them all till maybe they would giggle like children or know sweet sad like the falling of leaves. You couldn't tell what it would be, afterward could not fully recall. Yet it gave fullness. And—oh well—it'd be loss to miss the meeting but then—one did not give birth every day.
   A dwelling appeared to her left. A man came to its opening. He bowed with respect to her naked motherhood as she passed.
   The sun was higher and the mist gone. The sky quite cloudless. Soft the grass beneath her bare feet. From the clear bowl of the hills around her wafted the scent of bougainvillea.
   And it began.
   Her time. The spasm. Pain. She tried to push her mind from it, think of the beauty of all this around her. An elder had told her this was once called the place of the angels. Legend even had it this was sacred ground, that the primitives who dwelt here had worshiped the stars and set their likeness into stone here on top of the grass. But, oh, she was hurting—and didn't care. Anyhow, she suddenly thought almost angrily fighting the pain, she did not believe that story. After all, who would place something sacred where they would have to trample on it?
   She reached her destination then.
   She went through the opening and it was cool inside. An elder was waiting and he smiled and led her to where she might lie. He settled her there, took her hands and unclenched them. Then, very gently, he placed his hands on her head . . .
   It was done.
   She felt the sweat going cool on her body and opened her eyes. The face of the elder was above her. She smiled at him.
   He did not smile back.
   The baby!
   She looked around the area. It wasn't there. But why? Surely—no. It must mean . . .no!Her brain went numb. Vaguely she noticed a man she had never seen was looking down at her. Some distant part of her registered he was old, his skin wrinkled. He had no hair. The baby! Her baby girl. She opened her mouth, but words choked in it and the old man spoke before her.
   "You must try to be brave."
   "Is—is it—my baby?"
   "Yes."
   All the coldness of nonexistence entered and filled her heart. Oh sweetest Love, the child was dead.
   "Dead," she numbly repeated aloud.
   "No. It's alive," the old man gravely replied.
   Hope sprang up in her—only to die as she stared at the bleakness of his eyes. The child might not be dead, but he was clearly thinking it better if it were. And that could mean just one thing—which was unthinkable.
   "Is it—is it . . ." she could barely manage the word, "deformed?"
   "Yes."
   There was a silence in the area and neither man looked at her. Then she said: "I want to see it."
   "No!" It was the elder. Incredibly he spoke almost with violence. "The child is—is a freak—grotesque. And with all our knowledge, all our power, there is nothing we can do to help it."
   "Nothing? But surely—"
   "There has never been a child like this before," the elder explained.
   The woman was silent. Then she gathered herself and softly said: "I want to see my baby."
   And so they brought it to her.
   With great courage the old man even held it in his hands. Held it out to her. She looked at it. Just briefly. Then a moan came from her and she jerked her head away. What brutal irony— the child seemed healthy enough: its little limbs moving, body perfectly formed. But, oh sweet Love, the horror—everywhere on its body—the child's skin . . .
   Its skin was white.

   EDWARD WELLEN
   Too Long at the Fair

   Edward Wellen, with time out for World War II and laboring as a mechanic's helper, oil company dispatcher, stamp dealer and copy writer, has worked only as a free-lance writer.

   "Who?"
   He said his name too softly.
   "Who?"
   He said his name too loudly.
   "Oh, of course. Come right in, darling."
   The door opened: purring, the mat slid him inside. He stepped off and it slid back. The door closed. And there he was, alone in simulated candlelight with Gvathryl.
   Her hand swam toward him at the end of a swan's-neck arm.
   "Darling, I'm so glad your press service asked for the interview and that I was able to squeeze you in."
   The way he understood it Gvathryl had done the asking He smiled and took her hand and bowed over it.
   "I'm grateful for this chance to meet you, Mrs. Gvathryl."
   "Just plain Gvathryl, please."
   There was nothing plain about Gvathryl. Not Gvathryl herself or her surroundings. Gvathryl was Gvathryl and she was staying in the grandest hotel's grandest suite.
   She took him by the arm and, pressing herself to him, led him to a chair. And indeed without that playful aid he might have lost his way in the luxurious clutter. He did lose his last bit of objectivity.
   The warmth of her presence, the firm pressure of her fragile-seeming hand, the look of her startlingly blue eyes, the throatiness of her voice, the perfume of her hair, all worked on him like an elixir. He had feared letdown but found himself high on the dream come true. Gvathryl in the flesh was even more overpowering than the Gvathryl on the screen he had known from his childhood.
   Gvathryl enthroned him, then arched a flame-tipped finger above a button.
   "Can I get you anything, darling?"
   He got hold of his vocal reins.
   "No, thanks. I've just had lunch."
   She pouted forgivingly.
   "Maybe something later then."
   She settled sinuously onto a cushion on the floor beside him and looked up at him soulfully.
   "Comfy, darling?"
   His pulse quickened. Comfy was the one thing he was not.
   "Yes, thanks."
   "Fine. Now what would you like to ask me, dear? Fire away. Anything at all."
   "Gvathryl, I . . ." He tried wildly to sort out his mental list of questions.
   "You might begin by asking me when and where I'm appearing next."
   He seized on that.but gave it a twist.
   "Gvathryl, I thought you had gone into retirement."
   Her eyes flashed.
   "Never!" The expressive hands conjured up a sacrificial lamb lying devotedly on the altar. "Oh, now and then I may withdraw from view for a time, to let the creative juices well up again, as it were; but as long as my public wants me, Gvathryl goes on."
   The aura of awe was wearing away and his reportorial eye probed Gvathryl. Just how old was Gvathryl? A spinal coldness vibrated to the thought. Gvathryl must be older than his mother's mother. He dimly remembered what time had done to his grandmother. But time had merely sandblasted Gvathryl into renewal.
   Yet now that he looked, he saw the signs: very clear now the numberless fine lines as of a canvas backgrounding the bold paint. Gvathryl, trying to cling to her vanishing—vanished —youth instead of retiring gracefully to live on her memories of glory. Gvathryl, staying too long at the fair. Gvathryl the all-besought, now doing the asking.
   "Would you like to see the new dance I've worked out for the personal-appearance tour I'm planning?"
   She spoke eagerly and gaily but rose stiffly and belatedly: woefully behind her own cue. He winced for Gvathryl. Her supple form had rigidified, her reflexes had slowed. She was watching his face anxiously.
   "Don't move, darling. Stay right where you are."
   She seemed to shake herself into limberness as she walked to the wall. She pressed a button and the room cleared a space. A curtain hung across one end of the room. Its shimmer and sheen suggested one-way glass fibers. It rustled in the currents of sweet-and -pungent air. He wondered if someone stood behind it looking and listening. That possibility made him feel embarrassed for Gvathryl.
   He saw her tremble and pull herself together before she turned to face him. The great Gvathryl, playing to an audience of one unimportant reporter, nervous? Did so much ride on this one performance? Nowhefelt nervous. That the great Gvathryl should worry about what he might think or write! Yet it was understandable. He personified the press and the public it serviced. He leaned back and touched the starter of his wrist audiovisual taper.
   And almost at once the awkwardness passed. This was still the great Gvathryl.
   "I call this 'The Dance of the Seven Worlds' "
   Her voice was sure, her poise was pure. One palm went to her heart, the other palm went out toward him. And without any effects she fashioned an ambience and without any music she established rhythm and melody. With a frisson of delight he gave himself up to her artistry. He forgot the gallons of rehearsal sweat it must have taken to make the devilishly hard look angelically easy, the dervishly wild look anglicanly cool.
   Now she floated mysteriously in a limbo of her own making, now she created a solar system to carom in. She danced the inspiring centripetal of her soul, she danced the outspiraling centrifugal of her love. Always she remained defiant in the face of doom.
   On one level she was the psyche striving to free itself from the bonds of flesh; on another level she was the human being breaking free of a life-denying puritanism and a spirit-denying depersonalization; on another, the artist emancipating herself from the tyranny of time; on yet another, earthbound humanity struggling to throw off the last fetters of gravity and flash out to the stars.
   His nails had bitten into his palms. He came aware of that now when the spell broke.
   Her turns and whirls and leaps and spins had grown hectic, even desperate. From being the greatest performance he had ever seen, Gvathryl's or anyone's, it became a travesty of a beginning dancer.
   Worse. Before his eyes she grew feeble, haggard, weighed down. The creeping ravages of time had caught up with her; they danced a shadowy and shufflingdanse macabretogether, Gvathryl and time.
   Worst of all, she would not stop. The persistence of motion gave her a zombielike air. It was chilling to watch her drive herself to exhaustion or death to celebrate the tenacity of the human spirit.
   He was an artist in his own way. A journalist, a good one and an honest one. He would have to show and tell it the way he saw it. But he would be as kind as he could.
   Then all at once she became again the same enchanting Gvathryl; no, an even more enchanting Gvathryl. He could almostseeher throw off all bonds. For one dazzling moment he had the feeling she would escape on all levels into an eternal freedom.
   In one burst of grace she broke the bonds of flesh, of society, of time, of space. She was not the dancer or the dance, she was freedom itself.
   It was a brief moment. Thrashing sounds came from behind the curtain but he ignored them in the collapse of Gvathryl at his feet.
   He knelt beside her.
   "Are you . . . ? Can I . . . ?"
   Gvathryl waved him away with an arm articulating like a broken wing. She spoke and he could hardly hear her.
   "Go. Please go. Leave me."
   As the door began to close after him he burned with shame. So quick to go when Gvathryl might be dying.
   He turned, caught the door, wedged himself in the opening: he almost lost his footing in the confused to and fro of the mat. He put his weight into a savage thrust that overcame the door's whining to close and squeezed inside.
   The curtain had torn away.
   There were two Gvathryls. One was the Gvathryl he had seen dancing, a worn-out simulacrum of the true Gvathryl. The other Gvathryl, lying tangled in a remote-control harness she wore, was a network of tiny wrinkles that had held together a mound of flab and now held together a kindle of broken bones as well. This, the true Gvathryl, had caught at the curtain to pull herself up and had only brought it down.
   "It isn't your fault, my dear."
   She wasn't talking to him. She did not see him. She was looking at the simulacrum and talking to it.
   "I'm still not sure what happened when I tired and it all began going wrong and I saw we were losing that nice young man. Did I reverse the torque converter myself or did you take over? Either way, I'm afraid the feedback has quite torn me apart."
   She laughed, and the blood came.
   "No matter, my dear. You did beautifully there at the end, with your learning memories of all our rehearsals. I was proud of you."
   He wiped the tape as he stole out.

   RICHARD BIRELEY
   Not a Petal Falls

   Richard Bireley is the only practicing electrical engineer I know who has written radio commercials, run a late night disc show—and toured vaudeville as a magician, The Great Bikini. This sounds more like the proper exotic background for a writer—and so it is and he proves here.

   pleasure warmth comfort
   irritation anger pain pain that radiates
   my leaves my roots pain a jumble of thoughts confusion
   and pain and pain
   a fading thoughts separate separate separate
   gone one is gone sorrow grief FEAR
   rapid motion the other retreats where is my friend
   the game has ended too soon
   why why my friend who feeds me
   who soaks the dry earth that i may drink where is he
   i am alone i thirst alone i thirst
   not usual wrong wrong
   warm thoughts gone gone gone gone gone
   faded in pain pain gone
   the other he he who came for the sharing of patterned cards
   gone gone gone gone he who
   also cooled my roots with brief rain
   gone gone in haste gone in fear why why why am i alone

   The sergeant took a long, careful look around the small room. Better than a lot of the S.C. hangouts I've been called to, he thought. Neat. And some of those old books look valuable. He picked up one and flipped it open. First printing, 1953. Seventy years old. Bound, too. The old boy had money. The room showed it. Wonder how he kept Senior Citizen status without signing over everything he owned. Probably put it in trust for some relative and took the interest. That was the usual dodge.
   Yep. Nice room. Sim-oak furniture. A small tri-D by the bed. And a reader, too, with a couple of cubes lying on top. A touch of green came from the window, where a drooping plant on the sill faced its leaves to pick the last bit of warmth from a haze-shrouded sun. He sighed and turned away.
   "Ralph. Get a vid of the room, will you. I want to move the corpus out of here."
   "Sure, sergeant. Got the whole thing already. Finished the compu-check, too. You might like to take a look at the printout." He handed the sergeant a wide sheet of paper.
   The sergeant ran his eyes down the column of figures. The red-inked summary at the bottom caught and held his eye.
   Available data show high negative correlation factor. Probability of murder: 99.99%
   He gazed at the impersonally accusing red letters for a moment, then sighed and crumpled the paper into a tight ball. Another officer hurried up behind him.
   "This is the list you wanted," the man said. "Everybody who lives here in the home. The checks mark the ones who the old boy saw the most of. I underlined one. Charley Michner. He had a running bridge game going with the deceased. Should have known him better than anyone else around here."
   "Thanks, Irv. Might as well start with him. Is he in?"
   "Got him outside."
   The sergeant lost interest as soon as the old man entered. Just another poor, tired bastard, he thought. Baggy pants. Faded shirt with frayed collar, and the shuffling gait of one who has nothing to hurry for. His head was down, and his fingers picked nervously at a dangling button on his shapeless black sweater. His answers came slowly, as if from far away.
   "Huh? Sure I was here. It was Tuesday night, wasn't it? We play cards every Tuesday. On Wednesdays I go to a show. ... No. Not too late.... Sure. He was fine when I left. Happy. He beat me pretty bad. Poor Sam."
   He stared at the floor for a moment, blinking, then raised his head, his mouth working.
   "Killed? You said killed. Not Sam. He musta had one of his dizzy spells and fell. You said killed?"
   The sergeant nodded, waiting.
   The old man pulled his sweater tighter around him. He shook his head.
   "That's got to be wrong. Nobody'd kill Sam. He fell. Didn't he fall? Nobody'd kill Sam." Charley Michner shook his head obstinately. "He musta had one of his dizzy spells and fell. He did fall, didn't he?"
   "Someone killed him, Mr. Michner." The sergeant pomted to the table. "That small, green box there makes it very clear. We focused it on the area where we found yourfriend.The unit scanned his body, just as it was lying there. It scoped the thickness of his skull at the point of impact, checked the position of the body and location of all nearby objects. According to the computed results, the fracture was toodeep,and the body position was all wrong. He had to be shoved, hard, to end up the way he did."
   It seemed very quiet in the room. The old man rubbed at his eyes, and his chin quivered. His face was gray.
   "It's wrong," he mumbled. "It's wrong. We played cards."
   His shoulders drooped as he leaned foreward and put his head in his hands.
   The sergeant nodded to one of the men.
   "Better get him back to his room," he said.
   Charley Michner shuffled to the door, then stopped and turned.
   "Please tell me if you find out who did it. Poor Sam. Will you tell me?"
   The sergeant nodded.

   thoughts swirl and twist many mixed
   fade and swell loud soft fast slow hurry get job done go i rest as light fades rest
   a small shining drifts high to bathe me in pale light
   my leaves are silver and gold is hiver wish to lift them to moonlight but no no moisture no moisture can't can't can't i die i die
   oh now coming i feel thoughts brush near it i he someone comes fear fear again HIDE back to earth back to seed hide hide in drying earth
   bright flash then dark thought twists and builds
   fear fear and sorrow sound of shuffling
   sound of small hardness hitting earth floor i sense a stopping fear stopping and the warm feeling surrounds me
   my leaves my roots drenched drenched with life drenched with water
   sound small noises faint from afar fear is back now very strong the shuffle noise
   a strange dragging noise and again a quick light dark returns
   fear goes smaller and smaller
   i rest drinking

   The room was filled with the quiet bustle of a routine job, efficiently done. The sergeant, hands in pockets, glanced around the room.
   "Okay, people. Let's get this stuff checked out. Next of kin is already waiting to claim it as soon as we run it through the empathy plotter. I'd guess we won't find much, though. Just traces of his card-playing friend, Charley, and maybe the nephew, if he was here recently."
   "That the guy who's in such a hurry to get his hands on the loot?" one of the techs asked.
   "Yeh. That's him. Showed up first thing this morning. Raised seven kinds of hell because he couldn't come right over and pick it up. I bet he didn't leave much of a trace around here. He's the type that visits every Easter unless he has something better to do. Got it all ready?" The last to a technician standing beside a small console. The tech nodded.
   As the sergeant stepped back, a glint from under a low table caught his eye. Stooping, he picked up a delicately crafted man's earring. The platinum clasp was broken.
   "Chan," he called. "Look at this." He held it up. "Check your vid scan from yesterday and see if this was here then. I don't remember it."
   The detective shook his head. "Me neither."
   He took a small box from his pocket, pointed it at a blank wall and pressed a button. A swirl of color appeared, sharpening to a three-dimensional view of the room. He adjusted a dial and the view shifted, centering on the table.
   "I don't see it," the man said.
   The sergeant leaned forward, peering.
   "Get a little closer," he said.
   The table blurred, then loomed larger. The sergeant moved to one side of the picture, checking behind the legs of the table.
   "Nope. Not there," he said. "Let's find out who left his calling card."
   He placed the earring on a platform in the front of the console. The tech pushed a button, and a pale blue light flickered briefly around the object, then disappeared. A strip of paper pushed quietly from the machine.
   Across it ran a series of light, wavy lines, whose peaks and valleys chased each other across the paper in ordered confusion. An entire personality reduced to a series of wandering scrawls.
   The sergeant glanced at the strip and shrugged.
   "That's my plot," he said. "I recognize the profile. Mine would show up first, since I just handled the evidence. Watch for the dark ones that result from prolonged contact."
   More curves were produced, most of them light, showing the brief presence of the others in the room. Then, a heavy trace appeared.
   "Get an I.D. on that one," he said. "That's got to be the owner. Look how dark that plot is. Only long contact will show up like that."
   He dropped the paper into another slot, then fidgeted impatiently, waiting. Finally, a light glowed green.
   "Wish they'd speed up that computer link," he grumbled, withdrawing the slip. Printed across the bottom were a name and a number. He glanced and it and nodded grimly.
   "Looks like the loving nephew dropped by after hours. Wonder what he was trying to find."
   The voice from the door was high pitched and nasal.
   "I resent your tone, and your implication. And why should I try to find anything. It all belongs to me, anyway."
   "That's what we'll have to try and find out. Is this yours?"
   "You know damn well it is. I knew I lost it here. About a month ago, while I was visiting my uncle. Where did you find it?"
   ''Right where you lost it, I'd say," the sergeant said. "Only your timing may be a bit off. Maybe we'd better talk about this somewhere else. But before we go; there's one other matter to be settled. Our listing shows you to be the sole heir. What do you want done with the effects."
   "I'll pick them up today. Just as soon as I'm done with you," the man said.
   "Fine. Ricco! Bring that plant along. Well need it to monitor at the line-up."
   The nephew looked at the drooping leaves and curled his lip.
   "Well, keep it the hell away from me. Hate the damn things. Allergic."
   As they turned to leave, the technician raised his hand. "Sergeant. I have a couple of more traces off the earring. Do you want to check them?"
   The sergeant hesitated, then shrugged. "Naw," he said. "Probably just a collection of casual visitors, anyway." The door closed behind them.

   dark dim i sit in the dark dim and the moving around me small little flower things stuck to my leaves each sends a tendril
   a small vinelet off to a far away creature which grows in a corner of the space where we now live it glows with light light that flickers i feel the flickers from the pads on my leaves a moving creature tends it touches its blossoms
   that sprout from the wide flatness of its trunk the field around me changes becomes sharper
   a tiny shock ripples a loss a breaking and a loss a petal falls my petals my petals only through my petals do i sense these things
   they fall i must hold tightly
   now now now now the field builds it spreads flickers weaves like moonlight on my leaves touching pushing deep within me touching deep
   known thoughts come near a familiar being nears i rest quiet silently probing within the earth
   seeking out bits of cool moisture these thoughts are known to me someone nears someone known i rest quiet
   seeking bits of earth
   seeking bits of life-fluid in the earth the thoughts are remembered now
   the thoughts of the patterned cards and of fear fear fear sorrow sorrow sorrow it rises strong strong like a hiding creature
   sensing the hunter i find a small bit of dampness i rest i wait
   fear retreats and is gone ANGER driving at me anger anger that flickers and rages fighting fighting fighting fighting those around it i know i know this angry mind I scream I scream I scream and the flicker weaving field shatters into tiny shards of sunlight
   as i scream scream scream scream

   The small man whimpered and hung back as he was hustled through white tiled halls. The two orderlies holding his arms didn't glance his way.
   "Straighten up," one of them said mechanically. "It won't hurt. Just a little rearrangement of some nerve channels to make sure you don't even think about killing off any more citizens."
   "But it won't be me, anymore," the little man cried softly. "Besides, I didn't, I didn't." His voice trailed off.
   The deputy from the Ministry of Religious Practices moved up from behind.
   "Now, citizen," he said. "It will be easier for you if you admit your guilt before you are adjusted." His tone was soothing. "We know of the money you would have inherited. And of the earring you dropped. Why don't you tell me what you were looking for. You know that the evidence of the plant was quite conclusive. The only living witness to your crime reacted violently when you were brought near it. The indicators on the detectors went clear to their limits. Only a reaction of extreme horror, brought on by its awareness of your crime could have showed such results. Share your guilt with me. The tests can't lie, you know."
   The little man shook his head helplessly. "But I didn't," he cried. "I didn't."

   the time of darkness is near
   from a last cherished petal i sense dimly soon soon
   somewhere from above the level
   above where the creatures move a thought disturbs my rites my rites of season ending the old fear faint but pressing
   fear fear and worry fear
   and no hope fear and a kind of death
   much fear as this have i sensed in recent days thoughts fears weave and dart overhead like scuffling sparrows dart and swoop
   motion stops and the terror rises a small struggle
   confusion a swirl of fear love anger joy hate sorrow fear then it ceases
   an empty calm remains i hope i will be sent to live with the friend of the games of the patterned games of the patterned cards he will care for me he will see that the needed water bathes my roots i will have a place in the warm sun
   the other would have left me
   left me to die die die die die this one will be kind i think he will not
   become angry
   i think he will not destroy me as he did his friend the last petal falls
   all is black

   ALFRED BESTER
   My Affair with Science Fiction

   He will hate me for saying it, but Alfred Bester is in the running for Crand Old Man of science fiction. His first sale was in 1939 and was followed soon after by unforgettable stories like "Adam and No Eve" and "The Push of a Finger." Is it possible to say that his novelThe Demolished Manhas been a classic since it was first published. It is possible. When he writes about the world of science fiction he bears listening to. This exercise in autobiography is from the soon to be published bookHell's Cartographers,a collection of similar pieces by other history makers such as Damon Knight and Brian W. Aldiss.

   I'm told that some science fiction readers complain that nothing is known about my private life. It's not that I have anything to conceal; it's simply the result of the fact that I'm reluctant to talk about myself because I prefer to listen to others talk about themselves. I'm genuinely interested, and also there's always the chance of picking up something useful. The professional writer is a professional magpie.
   Very briefly: I was born on Manhattan Island December 18, 1913, of a middle-class, hard-working family. I was born a Jew but the family had a laissez-faire attitude toward religion and let me pick my own faith for myself. I picked Natural Law. My father was raised in Chicago, always a raunchy town with no time for the God bit. Neither has he. My mother is a quiet Christian Scientist. When I do something that pleases her, she nods and says, "Yes, of course. You were born in Science." I used to make fun of her belief as a kid, and we had some delightful arguments. We still do, while my father sits and smiles benignly. So my home life was completely liberal and iconoclastic.
   I went to the last little red schoolhouse in Manhattan (now preserved as a landmark) and to a beautiful new high school on the very peak of Washington Heights (now the scene of cruel racial conflicts). I went to the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia where I made a fool of myself trying to become a Renaissance Man. I refused to specialize and knocked myself out studying the humanities and the scientific disciplines. I was a miserable member of the crew squad, but I was the most successful member of the fencing team.
   I'd been fascinated by science fiction ever since Hugo Gernsback's magazines first appeared on the stands. I suffered through the dismal years of space opera when science fiction was written by the hacks of pulp Westerns who merely translated the Lazy X ranch into the Planet X and then wrote the same formula stories, using space pirates instead of cattle rustlers. I welcomed the glorious epiphany of John Campbell, whose Astounding brought about the Golden Age of science fiction.
   Ah! Science fiction, science fiction! I've loved it since its birth. I've read it all my life, off and on, with excitement, with joy, sometimes with sorrow. Here's a twelve-year-old kid, hungry for ideas and imagination, borrowing fairy-tale collections from the library---The Blue Fairy Book, The Red Fairy Book, The Paisley Fairy Book---and smuggling them home under his jacket because he was ashamed to be reading fairy tales at his age. And then came Hugo Gernsback.
   I read science fiction piecemeal in those days. I didn't have much allowance, so I couldn't afford to buy the magazines. I would loaf at the newsstand outside the stationery store as though contemplating which magazine to buy. I would leaf through a science fiction magazine, reading rapidly, until the proprietor came out and chased me. A few hours later I'd return and continue where I'd been forced to leave off. There was one hateful kid in summer camp who used to receive the Amazing Quarterly in July. I was next in line, and he was hateful because he was a slow reader.
   It's curious that I remember very few of the stories. The H. G. Wells reprints, to be sure, and the very first book I ever bought was the collection of Wells's science fiction short stories. I remember "The Fourth Dimensional Cross Section" (Have I got the title right?) which flabbergasted me with its concept. I think I first read Flatland by A. Square as an Amazing reprint. I remember a cover for a novel titled, I think, The Second Deluge. It showed the survivors of the deluge in a sort of Second Ark gazing in awe at the peak of Mt. Everest now bared naked by the rains. The peak was a glitter of precious gems. I interviewed Sir Edmund Hillary in New Zealand a few years ago and he never said anything about diamonds and emeralds. That gives one furiously to think.
   Through high school and college I continued to read science fiction but, as I said, with increasing frustration. The pulp era had set in and most of the stories were about heroes with names like "Brick Malloy" who were inspired to combat space pirates, invaders from other worlds, giant insects, and all the rest of the trash still being produced by Hollywood today. I remember a perfectly appalling novel about a Negro conspiracy to take over the world. These niggers, you see, had invented a serum which turned them white, so they could pass, and they were boring from within. Brick Malloy took care of those black bastards. We've come a long way, haven't we?
   There were a few bright moments. Who can forget the impact of Weinbaum's "A Martian Odyssey"? That unique story inspired an entire vogue for quaint alien creatures in science fiction. "A Martian Odyssey" was one reason why I submitted my first story to Standard Magazines; they had published Weinbaum's classic. Alas, Weinbaum fell apart and degenerated into a second-rate fantasy writer, and died too young to fulfill his original promise.
   And then came Campbell who rescued, elevated, gave meaning and importance to science fiction. It became a vehicle for ideas, daring, audacity. Why, in God's name, didn't he come first? Even today science fiction is still struggling to shake off its pulp reputation, deserved in the past but certainly not now. It reminds me of the exploded telegony theory; that once a thoroughbred mare has borne a colt by a nonthoroughbred sire, she can never bear another thoroughbred again. Science fiction is still suffering from telegony.
   Those happy golden days! I used to go to secondhand magazine stores and buy back copies of Astounding. I remember a hot July weekend when my wife was away working in a summer stock company and I spent two days thrilling to Van Vogt's Slan and Heinlein's Universe! What a concept, and so splendidly worked out with imagination and remorseless logic! Do you remember "Black Destroyer"? Do you remember Lewis Padgett's "Mimsy Were the Borogroves"? That was originality carried to the fifth power. Do you remember---But it's no use. I could go on and on. The Blue, the Red and the Paisley Fairy Books were gone forever.
   After I graduated from the university I really didn't know what I wanted to do with myself. In retrospect I realize that what I needed was a Wanderjahr, but such a thing was unheard of in the States at that time. I went to law school for a couple of years (just stalling) and to my surprise received a concentrated education which far surpassed that of my undergraduate years. After thrashing and loafing, to the intense pain of my parents, who would have liked to see me settled in a career, I finally took a crack at writing a science fiction story which I submitted to Standard Magazines. The story had the ridiculous title of "Diaz-X."
   Two editors on the staff, Mort Weisinger and Jack Schiff, took an interest in me, I suspect mostly because I'd just finished reading and annotating Joyce's Ulysses and would preach it enthusiastically without provocation, to their great amusement. They told me what they had in mind. Thrilling Wonder was conducting a prize contest for the best story written by an amateur, and so far none of the submissions was worth considering. They thought "Diaz-X" might fill the bill if it was whipped into shape. They taught me how to revise the story into acceptable form and gave it the prize, $50. It was printed with the title, "The Broken Axiom." They continued their professional guidance and I've never stopped being grateful to them.
   Recently, doing an interview for Publishers Weekly on my old friend and hero, Robert Heinlein (he prefers "Robert" to "Bob"), I asked him how he got started in science fiction.
   "In '39. I started writing and I was hooked. I wrote everything I learned anywhere; navy, army, anywhere. My first science fiction story was 'Lifeline.' I saw an ad in Thrilling Wonder offering a prize of $50 for the best amateur story, but then I found out that Astounding was paying a cent a word and my story ran to 7,000 words. So I submitted it to them first and they bought it."
   "You sonofabitch," I said between my teeth. "I won that Thrilling Wonder contest, and you beat me by twenty dollars.
   We both laughed but despite our mutual admiration I suspect that we both knew that twenty dollars wasn't the only way Robert has always bettered me in science fiction.
   I think I wrote perhaps a dozen acceptable science fiction stories in the next two years, all of them rotten, for I was without craft and experience and had to learn by trial and error. I've never been one to save things, I don't even save my mss., but I did hold on to the first four magazine covers on which my name appeared. Thrilling Wonder Stories (15ȼ). On the lower left-hand comer is printed "Slaves of the Life Ray, a startling novelet by Alfred Bester." The feature story was "Trouble on Titan, A Gerry Carlyle Novel by Arthur K. Barnes." Another issue had me down in the same bullpen, "The Voyage to Nowhere by Alfred Bester." The most delightful item is my first cover story in Astonishing Stories (104), "The Pet Nebula by Alfred Bester." The cover shows an amazed young scientist in his laboratory being confronted by a sort of gigantic radioactive seahorse. Damned if I can remember what the story was about.
   Some other authors on the covers were Neil R. Jones, J. Harvey Haggard, Ray Cummings (I remember that name), Harry Bates (his, too), Kelvin Kent (sounds like a house name to me), E. E. Smith, Ph.D. (but of course) and Henry Kuttner with better billing than mine. He was in the left-hand upper comer.
   Mort Weisinger introduced me to the informal luncheon gatherings of the working science fiction authors of the late thirties. I met Henry Kuttner, who later became Lewis Padgett, Ed Hamilton, and Otto Binder, the writing half of Eando Binder. Eando was a sort of acronym of the brothers Ed and Otto Binder. E and O. Ed was a self-taught science fiction illustrator and not very good. Malcolm Jameson, author of navy-oriented space stories, was there, tall, gaunt, prematurely grey, speaking in slow, heavy tones. Now and then he brought along his pretty daughter, who turned everybody's head.
   The vivacious compere of those luncheons was Manley Wade Wellman, a professional Southerner full of regional anecdotes. It's my recollection that one of his hands was slightly shriveled, which may have been why he came on so strong for the Confederate cause. We were all very patient with that; after all, our side won the war. Wellman was quite the man-of-the-world for the innocent thirties; he always ordered wine with his lunch.
   Henry Kuttner and Otto Binder were medium-sized young men, very quiet and courteous, and entirely without outstanding features. Once I broke Kuttner up quite unintentionally. I said to Weisinger, "I've just finished a wild story that takes place in a spaceless, timeless locale where there's no objective reality. It's awfully long, 20,000 words, but I can cut the first 5,000." Kuttner burst out laughing. I do, too, when I think of the dumb kid I was. Once I said most earnestly to Jameson, "I've discovered a remarkable thing. If you combine two story-lines into one, the result can be tremendously exciting." He stared at me with incredulity. "Haven't you ever heard of plot and counterplot?" he growled. I hadn't. I discovered it all by myself.
   Being brash and the worst kind of intellectual snob, I said privately to Weisinger that I wasn't much impressed by these writers who were supplying most of the science fiction for the magazines, and asked him why they received so many assignments. He explained, "They may never write a great story, but they never write a bad one. We know we can depend on them." Having recently served my time as a magazine editor, I now understand exactly what he meant.
   When the comic book explosion burst, my two magi were lured away from Standard Magazines by the Superman Group. There was a desperate need for writers to provide scenarios (Wellman nicknamed them "Squinkas") for the artists, so Weisinger and Schiff drafted me as one of their writers. I hadn't the faintest idea of how to write a comic book script, but one rainy Saturday afternoon Bill Finger, the star comics writer of the time, took me in hand and gave me, a potential rival, an incisive, illuminating lecture on the craft. I still regard that as a high point in the generosity of one colleague to another.
   I wrote comics for three or four years with increasing expertise and success. Those were wonderful days for a novice. Squinkas were expanding and there was a constant demand for stories. You could write three and four a week and experiment while learning your craft. The scripts were usually an odd combination of science fiction and "Gangbusters." To give you some idea of what they were like, here's a typical script conference with an editor I'll call Chuck Migg, dealing with a feature I'll call "Captain Hero." Naturally, both are fictitious. The dialogue isn't.
   "Now, listen," Migg says, "I called you down because we got to do something about Captain Hero."
   "What's your problem?"
   "The book is closing next week, and we're thirteen pages short. That's a whole lead story. We got to work one out now."
   "Any particular slant?"
   "Nothing special, except maybe two things. We got to be original and we got to be realistic. No more fantasy."
   "Right."
   "So give."
   "Wait a minute, for Christ's sake. Who d'you think I am, Saroyan?"
   Two minutes of intense concentration. Then Migg says, "How about this? A mad scientist invents a machine for making people go fast. So crooks steal it and hop themselves up. Get it? They move so fast they can rob a bank in a split second."
   "No."
   "We open with a splash panel showing money and jewelry disappearing with wiggly lines and---Why no?"
   "It's a steal from H. G. Wells."
   "But it's still original."
   "Anyway, it's too fantastic. I thought you said we were going to be realistic."
   "Sure I said realistic, but that don't mean we can't be imaginative. What we have to---"
   "Wait a minute. Hold the phone."
   "Got a flash?"
   "Maybe. Suppose we begin with a guy making some kind of experiment. He's a scientist, but not mad. This is a straight, sincere guy."
   "Gotcha. He's making an experiment for the good of humanity. Different narrative hook."
   "We'll have to use some kind of rare earth metal; cerium, maybe, or---"
   "No, let's go back to radium. We ain't used it in the last three issues."
   "All right, radium. The experiment is a success. He brings a dead dog back to life with his radium serum."
   "I'm waiting for the twist."
   "The serum gets into his blood. From a lovable scientist, he turns into a fiend."
   At this point Migg takes fire. "I got it! I got it! We'll make like King Midas. This doc is a sweet guy. He's just finished an experiment that's gonna bring eternal life to mankind. So he takes a walk in his garden and smells a rose. Blooie! The rose dies. He feeds the birds. Wham! The birds plotz. So how does Captain Hero come in?"
   "Well, maybe we can make it Jekyll and Hyde here. The doctor doesn't want to be a walking killer. He knows there's a rare medicine that'll neutralize the radium in him. He has to steal it from hospitals, and that brings Captain Hero around to investigate."
   "Nice human interest."
   "But here's the next twist. The doctor takes a shot of the medicine and thinks he's safe. Then his daughter walks into the lab, and when he kisses her, she dies. The medicine won't cure him any more."
   By now Migg is in orbit. "I got it! I got it! First we run a caption: IN THE LONELY LABORATORY A DREADFUL CHANGE TORTURES DR.-whatever his name is-HE IS NOW DR. RADIUM!!! Nice name, huh?"
   "Okay."
   "Then we run a few panels showing him turning green and smashing stuff and he screams: THE MEDICINE CAN NO LONGER SAVE ME! THE RADIUM IS EATING INTO MY BRAIN!! I'M GOING MAD, HA-HA-HA!!! How's that for real drama?"
   "Great."
   "Okay. That takes care of the first three pages. What happens with Dr. Radium in the next ten?"
   "Straight action finish. Captain Hero tracks him down. He traps Captain Hero in something lethal. Captain Hero escapes and traps Dr. Radium and knocks him off a cliff or something."
   "No. Knock him into a volcano."
   "Why?"
   "So we can bring Dr. Radium back for a sequel. He really packs a wallop. We could have him walking through walls and stuff on account of the radium in him."
   "Sure."
   "This is gonna be a great character, so don't rush the writing. Can you start today? Good. I'll send a messenger up for it tomorrow."
   The great George Burns, bemoaning the death of vaudeville, once said, "There just ain't no place for kids to be lousy any more." The comics gave me an ample opportunity to get a lot of lousy writing out of my system.
   The line ". . . knocks him off a cliff or something" has particular significance. We had very strict self-imposed rules about death and violence. The Good Guys never deliberately killed. They fought, but only with their fists. Only villains used deadly weapons. We could show death coming---a character falling off the top of a high building "Aiggghhh!"---and we could show the result of death---a body, but always face down. We could never show the moment of death; never a wound, never a rictus, no blood, at the most a knife protruding from the back. I remember the shock that ran through the Superman office when Chet Gould drew a bullet piercing the forehead of a villain in "Dick Tracy."
   We had other strict rules. No cop could be crooked. They could be dumb, but they had to be honest. We disapproved of Raymond Chandler's corrupt police. No mechanical or scientific device could be used unless it had a firm foundation in fact. We used to laugh at the outlandish gadgets Bob Kane invented (he wrote his own squinkas as a rule) for "Batman and Robin" which, among ourselves, we called Batman and Rabinowitz. Sadism was absolutely taboo; no torture scenes, no pain scenes. And, of course, sex was completely out.
   Holiday tells a great story about George Horace Lorrimer, the awesome editor-in-chief of The Saturday Evening Post, our sister magazine. He did a very daring thing for his time. He ran a novel in two parts and the first installment end with the girl bringing the boy back to her apartment midnight for coffee and eggs. The second installment opened with them having breakfast together in her apartment following morning. Thousands of indignant letters came and Lorrimer had a form reply printed: "The Saturday Evening Post is not responsible for the behavior of its character between installments." Presumably our comic book heroes lived normal lives between issues; Batman getting bombed and chasing ladies into bed, Rabinowitz burning down his school library in protest against something.
   I was married by then, and my wife was an actress. One day she told me that the radio show, "Nick Carter," was looking for scripts. I took one of my best comic book stories, translated it into a radio script, and it was accepted. Then my wife told me that a new show, "Charlie Chan," was having script problems. I did the same thing with the same result. By the end of the year I was the regular writer on those two shows and branching out to "The Shadow" and others. The comic book days were over, but the splendid training I received in visualization, attack, dialogue, and economy stayed with me forever. The imagination must come from within; no one can teach you that. The ideas must come from without, and I'd better explain that.
   Usually, ideas don't just come to you out of nowhere; they require a compost heap of germination, and the compost is diligent preparation. I spent many hours a week in the reading rooms of the New York Public Library at 42nd Street and Fifth Avenue. I read everything and anything with magpie attention for a possible story idea; art frauds, police methods, smuggling, psychiatry, scientific research, color dictionaries, music, demography, biography, plays . . . the list is endless. I'd been forced to develop a speed-reading technique in law school and averaged a dozen books per session. I thought that one potential idea per book was a reasonable return. All that material went into my Commonplace Book for future use. I'm still using it and still adding to it.
   And so for the next five or six years I forgot comics, forgot science fiction and immersed myself in the entertainment business. It was new, colorful, challenging and---I must be honest---far more profitable. I wrote mystery, adventure, fantasy, variety, anything that was a challenge, a new experience, something I'd never done before. I even became the director on one of the shows, and that was another fascinating challenge.
   But very slowly an insidious poison began to diminish my pleasure; it was the constraints of network censorship and client control. There were too many ideas which I was not permitted to explore. Management said they were too different; the public would never understand them. Accounting said they were too expensive to do; the budget couldn't stand it. One Chicago client wrote an angry letter to the producer of one of my shows, "Tell Bester to stop trying to be original. All I want is ordinary scripts." That really hurt. Originality is the essence of what the artist has to offer. One way or another, we must produce a new sound.
   But I must admit that the originality-compulsion can often be a nuisance to myself as well as others. When a concept for a story develops, a half-dozen ideas for the working-out come to mind. These are examined and dismissed. If they came that easily, they can't be worthwhile. "Do it the hard way," I say to myself, and so I search for the hard way, driving myself and everybody around me quite mad in the process. I pace interminably, mumbling to myself, I go for long walks. I sit in bars and drink, hoping that an overheard fragment of conversation may give me a clue. It never happens but all the same, for reasons which I don't understand, I do get ideas in saloons.
   Here's an example. Recently I was struggling with the pheromone phenomenon. A pheromone is an external hormone secreted by an insect---an ant, say---when it finds a good food source. The other members of the colony are impelled to follow the pheromone trail, and they find the food, too. I wanted to extrapolate that to a man and I had to do it the hard way. So I paced and I walked and at last I went to a bar where I was nailed by a dumb announcer I knew who drilled my ear with his boring monologue. As I was gazing moodily into my drink and wondering how to escape, the hard way came to me. "He doesn't leave a trail," I burst out. "He's impelled to follow a trail." While the announcer looked at me in astonishment, I whipped out my notebook and wrote, "Death left a pheromone trail for him; death in fact, death in the making, death in the planning."
   So, out of frustration, I went back to science fiction in order to keep my cool. It was a safety valve, an escape hatch, therapy for me. The ideas which no show would touch could be written as science fiction stories, and I could have the satisfaction of seeing them come to life. (You must have an audience for that.) I wrote perhaps a dozen and a half stories, most of them for Fantasy& Science Fiction whose editors, Tony Boucher and Mick McComas, were unfailingly kind and appreciative.
   I wrote a few stories for Astounding, and out of that came my one demented meeting with the great John W. Campbell, Jr. I needn't preface this account with the reminder that I worshiped Campbell from afar. I had never met him; all my stories had been submitted by mail. I hadn't the faintest idea of what he was like, but I imagined that he was a combination of Bertrand Russell and Ernest Rutherford. So I sent off another story to Campbell, one which no show would let me tackle. The title was "Oddy and Id" and the concept was Freudian, that a man is not governed by his conscious mind but rather by his unconscious compulsions. Campbell telephoned me a few weeks later to say that he liked the story but wanted to discuss a few changes with me. Would I come to his office? I was delighted to accept the invitation despite the fact that the editorial offices of Astounding were then the hell and gone out in the boondocks of New Jersey.
   The editorial offices were in a grim factory that looked like and probably was a printing plant. The "offices" turned out to be one small office, cramped, dingy, occupied not only by Campbell but by his assistant, Miss Tarrant. My only yardstick for comparison was the glamorous network and advertising agency offices. I was dismayed.
   Campbell arose from his desk and shook hands. I'm a fairly big guy, but he looked enormous to me---about the size of a defensive tackle. He was dour and seemed preoccupied by matters of great moment. He sat down behind his desk. I sat down on the visitor's chair.
   "You don't know it," Campbell said. "You can't have any way of knowing it, but Freud is finished."
   I stared. "If you mean the rival schools of psychiatry, Mr. Campbell, I think---"
   "No I don't. Psychiatry, as we know it, is dead."
   "Oh, come now, Mr. Campbell. Surely you're joking."
   "I have never been more serious in my life. Freud has been destroyed by one of the greatest discoveries of our time."
   "What's that?"
   "Dianetics."
   "I never heard of it."
   "It was discovered by L. Ron Hubbard, and he will win the Nobel Peace Prize for it," Campbell said solemnly.
   "The Peace Prize? What for?"
   "Wouldn't the man who wiped out war win the Nobel Peace Prize?"
   "I suppose so, but how?"
   "Through Dianetics."
   "I honestly don't know what you're talking about, Mr. Campbell."
   "Read this," he said and handed me a sheaf of long galley proofs. They were, I discovered later, the galleys of the very first Dianetics piece to appear in Astounding.
   "Read them here and now? This is an awful lot of copy."
   He nodded, shuffled some papers, spoke to Miss Tarrant, and went about his business, ignoring me. I read the first galley carefully, the second not so carefully, as I became bored by the Dianetics mishmash. Finally I was just letting my eyes wander along, but was very careful to allow enough time for each galley so Campbell wouldn't know I was faking. He looked very shrewd and observant to me. After a sufficient time, I stacked the galleys neatly and returned them to Campbell's desk.
   "Well?" he demanded. "Will Hubbard win the Peace Prize?"
   "It's difficult to say. Dianetics is a most original and imaginative idea, but I've only been able to read through the piece once. If I could take a set of galleys home and---"
   "No," Campbell said. "There's only this one set. I'm rescheduling and pushing the article into the very next issue. It's that important." He handed the galleys to Miss Tarrant. "You're blocking it," he told me. "That's all right. Most people do that when a new idea threatens to overturn their thinking."
   "That may well be," I said, "but I don't think it's true of myself. I'm a hyperthyroid, an intellectual monkey, curious about everything."
   "No," Campbell said, with the assurance of a diagnostician, "you're a hyp-O-thyroid. But it's not a question of intellect, it's one of emotion. We conceal our emotional history from ourselves although Dianetics can trace our history all the way back to the womb."
   "To the womb!"
   "Yes. The fetus remembers. Come and have lunch."
   Remember, I was fresh from Madison Avenue and expense-account luncheons. We didn't go to the Jersey equivalent of Sardi's, "21," even P. J. Clarke's. He led me downstairs and we entered a tacky little lunchroom crowded with printers and file clerks; an interior room with blank walls that made every sound reverberate. I got myself a liverwurst on white, no mustard, and a Coke. I can't remember what Campbell ate.
   We sat down at a small table while he continued to discourse on Dianetics, the great salvation of the future when the world would at last be cleared of its emotional wounds. Suddenly he stood up and towered over me. "You can drive your memory back to the womb," he said. "You can do it if you release every block, clear yourself and remember. Try it."
   "Now?"
   "Now. Think. Think back. Clear yourself. Remember! You can remember when your mother tried to abort you with a buttonhook. You've never stopped hating her for it."
   Around me there were cries of, "BLT down, hold the mayo. Eighty-six on the English. Combo rye, relish. Coffee shake, pick up." And here was this grim tackle standing over me, practicing Dianetics without a license. The scene was so lunatic that I began to tremble with suppressed laughter. I prayed. "Help me out of this, please. Don't let me laugh in his face. Show me a way out." God showed me. I looked up at Campbell and said, "You're absolutely right, Mr. Campbell, but the emotional wounds are too much to bear. I can't go on with this."
   He was completely satisfied. "Yes, I could see you were shaking." He sat down again, and we finished our lunch and returned to his office. It developed that the only changes he wanted in my story was the removal of all Freudian terms which Dianetics had now made obsolete. I agreed, of course; they were minor, and it was a great honor to appear in Astounding no matter what the price. I escaped at last and returned to civilization where I had three double gibsons and don't be stingy with the onions.
   That was my one and only meeting with John Campbell, and certainly my only story conference with him. I've had some wild ones in the entertainment business, but nothing to equal that. It reinforced my private opinion that a majority of the science fiction crowd, despite their brilliance, were missing their marbles. Perhaps that's the price that must be paid for brilliance.
   One day, out of the clear sky, Horace Gold telephoned to ask me to write for Galaxy, which he had launched with tremendous success. It filled an open space in the field; Astounding was hard science; Fantasy& Science Fiction was wit and sophistication; Galaxy was psychiatry-oriented. I was flattered but begged off, explaining that I didn't think I was much of a science fiction author compared to the genuine greats. "Why me?" I asked. "You can have Sturgeon, Leiber, Asimov, Heinlein."
   "I've got them," he said, "and I want you."
   "Horace, you're an old scriptwriter, so you'll understand. I'm tied up with a bitch of a show starring a no-talent. I've got to write continuity for him, quiz sections for him to M. C. and dramatic sketches for him to mutilate. He's driving me up the wall. His agent is driving me up the wall. I really haven't got the time."
   Horace didn't give up. He would call every so often to chat about the latest science fiction, new concepts, what authors had failed and how they'd failed. In the course of these gossips, he contrived to argue that I was a better writer than I thought, and to ask if I didn't have any ideas that I might be interested in working out.
   All this was on the phone because Horace was trapped in his apartment. He'd had shattering experiences in both the European and Pacific theaters during World War II and had been released from the service with complete agoraphobia. Everybody had to come to his apartment to see him, including his psychiatrist. Horace was most entertaining on the phone; witty, ironic, perceptive, making shrewd criticisms of science fiction.
   I enjoyed these professional gossips with Horace so much that I began to feel beholden to him; after all, I was more or less trapped in my workshop, too. At last I submitted perhaps a dozen ideas for his judgment. Horace discussed them all, very sensibly and realistically, and at last suggested combining two different ideas into what ultimately became The Demolished Man. I remember one of the ideas only vaguely; it had something to do with extrasensory perception, but I've forgotten the gimmick. The other I remember quite well. I wanted to write a mystery about a future in which the police are armed with time machines so that if a crime is committed
   They could trace it back to its origin. This would make crime impossible. How then, in an open story, could a clever criminal outwit the police?
   I'd better explain "open story." The classic mystery is the closed story, or whodunit. It's a puzzle in which everything is concealed except the clues carefully scattered through the story. It's up to the audience to piece them together and solve the puzzle. I had become quite expert at that. However, I was carrying too many mystery shows and often fell behind in my deadlines, a heinous crime, so occasionally I would commit the lesser crime of stealing one of my scripts from Show A and adapting it for Show B.
   I was reading a three-year-old Show A script for possible theft when it dawned on me that I had written all the wrong scenes. It was a solid story, but in the attempt to keep it a closed puzzle, I had been forced to omit the real drama in order to present the perplexing results of the behind-the-scenes action. So I developed for myself a style of action mystery writing in which everything is open and known to the audience, every move and countermove, with only the final resolution coming as a surprise. This is an extremely difficult form of writing; it requires you to make your antagonists outwit each other continually with ingenuity and resourcefulness. It was a novel style back then.
   Horace suggested that instead of using time machines as the obstacle for the criminal, I use ESP. Time travel, he said, was a pretty worn-out theme, and I had to agree. ESP, Horace said, would be an even tougher obstacle to cope with, and I had to agree.
   "But I don't like the idea of a mind-reading detective," I said. "It makes him too special."
   "No, no," Horace said. "You've got to create an entire ESP society."
   And so the creation began. We discussed it on the phone almost daily, each making suggestions, dismissing suggestions, adapting and revising suggestions. Horace was, at least for me, the ideal editor, always helpful, always encouraging, never losing his enthusiasm. He was opinionated, God, knows, but so was I, perhaps even more than he. What saved the relationship was the fact that we both knew we respected each other; that, and our professional concentration on the job. For professionals the job is the boss.
   The writing began in New York. When my show went off for the summer, I took the ms. out to our summer cottage on Fire Island and continued there. I remember a few amusing incidents. For a while I typed on the front porch. Wolcott Gibbs, the New Yorker drama critic, lived up the street and every time he passed our cottage and saw me working he would denounce me. Wolcott had promised to write a biography of Harold Ross that summer and hadn't done a lick of work yet. L F. (Izzy) Stone dropped in once and found himself in the midst of an animated discussion of political thought as reflected by science fiction. Izzy became so fascinated that he asked us to take five while he ran home to put a fresh battery in his hearing aid.
   I used to go surf-fishing every dawn and dusk. One evening I was minding my own business, busy casting and thinking of nothing in particular when the idea of using typeface symbols in names dropped into my mind. I reeled in so quickly that I fouled my line, rushed to the cottage and experimented on the typewriter. Then I went back through the ms. and changed all the names. I remember quitting work one morning to watch an eclipse and it turned cloudy. Obviously somebody up there didn't approve of eclipse-breaks. And so, by the end of the summer, the novel was finished. My working title had been Demolition. Horace changed it to The Demolished Man. Much better, I think.
   The book was received with considerable enthusiasm by the Galaxy readers, which was gratifying but surprising. I hadn't had any conscious intention of breaking new trails; I was just trying to do a craftsmanlike job. Some of the fans' remarks bemused me. "Oh, Mr. Bester! How well you understand women." I never thought I understood women. "Who were the models for your characters?" They're surprised when I tell them that the model for one of the protagonists was a bronze statue of a Roman emperor in the Metropolitan Museum. It's haunted me ever since I was a child. I read the emperor's character into the face and when it came time to write this particular fictional character, I used my emperor for the mold.
   The reclame of the novel turned me into a science fiction somebody, and people were curious about me. I was invited to gatherings of the science fiction Hydra Club where I met the people I was curious about: Ted Sturgeon, Jim Blish, Tony Boucher, Ike Asimov, Avram Davidson, then a professional Jew wearing a yarmulka, and many others. They were all lunatic (So am I. It takes one to spot one.) and convinced me again that most science fiction authors have marbles missing. I can remember listening to an argument about the correct design for a robot, which became so heated that for a moment I thought Judy Merrill was going to punch Lester del Rey in the nose. Or maybe it was vice versa.
   I was particularly attracted to Blish and Sturgeon. Both were soft-spoken and charming conversationalists. Jim and I would take walks in Central Park during his lunch hour (he was then working as a public relations officer for a pharmaceutical house) and we would talk shop. Although I was an admirer of his work, I felt that it lacked the hard drive to which I'd been trained, and I constantly urged him to attack his stories with more vigor. He never seemed to resent it, or at least was too courteous to show it. His basic problem was how to hold down a PR writing job and yet do creative writing on the side. I had no advice for that. It's a problem which very few people have solved.
   Sturgeon and I used to meet occasionally in bars for drinks and talk. Ted's writing exactly suited my taste, which is why I thought he was the finest of us all. But he had a quality which amused and exasperated me. Like Mort Sahl and a few other celebrities I've interviewed---Tony Quinn is another Ted lived on crisis, and if he wasn't in a crisis, he'd create one for himself. His life was completely disorganized, so it was impossible for him to do his best work consistently. What a waste!
   In all fairness I should do a description of myself. I will, but I'm going to save it for the end.
   I'd written a contemporary novel based on my TV experiences and it had a fairly decent reprint sale and at last sold to the movies. My wife and I decided to blow the loot on a few years abroad. We put everything into storage, contracted for a little English car, stripped our luggage down to the bare minimum and took off. The only writing materials I brought with me were a portable, my Commonplace Book, a thesaurus, and an idea for another science fiction novel.
   For some time I'd been toying with the notion of using the Count of Monte Cristo pattern for a story. The reason is simple; I'd always preferred the antihero, and I'd always found high drama in compulsive types. It remained a notion until we bought our cottage on Fire Island and I found a pile of old National Geographies. Naturally I read them and came across a most interesting piece on the survival of torpedoed sailors at sea. The record was held by a Philippine cook's helper who lasted for something like four months on an open raft. Then came the detail that racked me up. He'd been sighted several times by passing ships which refused to change course to rescue him because it was a Nazi submarine trick to put out decoys like this. The magpie mind darted down, picked it up, and the notion was transformed into a developing story with a strong attack.
   The Stars My Destination (I've forgotten what my working title was) began in a romantic white cottage down in Surrey. This accounts for the fact that so many of the names are English. When I start a story, I spend days reading through telephone directories for help in putting together character names--- I'm very fussy about names---and in this case I used English directories. I'm compelled to find or invent names with varying syllables. One, two, three, and four. I'm extremely sensitive to tempo. I'm also extremely sensitive to word color and context. For me there is no such thing as a synonym.
   The book got under way very slowly and by the time we left Surrey for a flat in London, I had lost momentum. I went back, took it from the top and started all over again, hoping to generate steam pressure. I write out of hysteria. I bogged down again and I didn't know why. Everything seemed to go wrong. I couldn't use a portable, but the only standard machines I could rent had English keyboards. That threw me off. English ms. paper was smaller than the American, and that threw me off. And I was cold, cold, cold. So in November we packed and drove to the car ferry at Dover, with the fog snapping at our ass all the way, crossed the Channel and drove south to Rome.
   After many adventures we finally settled into a penthouse apartment on the Piazza della Muse. My wife went to work in Italian films. I located the one (1) standard typewriter in all Rome with an American keyboard and started in again, once more taking it from the top. This time I began to build up momentum, very slowly, and was waiting for the hysteria to set in. I remember the day that it came vividly.
   I was talking shop with a young Italian film director for whom my wife was working, both of us beefing about the experimental things we'd never been permitted to do. I told him about a note on synesthesia which I'd been dying to write as a TV script for years. I had to explain synesthesia---this was years before the exploration of psychedelic drugs---and while I was describing the phenomenon I suddenly thought, "Jesus Christ! This is for the novel. It leads me into the climax." And I realized that what had been holding me up for so many months was the fact that I didn't have a fiery finish in mind. I must have an attack and a finale. I'm like the old Hollywood gag, "Start with an earthquake and build to a climax."
   The work went well despite many agonies. Rome is no place for a writer who needs quiet. The Italians fa rumore (make noise) passionately. The pilot of a Piper Cub was enchanted by a girl who sunbathed on the roof of a mansion across the road and buzzed her, and me, every morning from seven to nine. There were frequent informal motorcycle rallies in our piazza and the Italians always remove the mufflers from their vehicles; it makes them feel like Tazio Nuvolare. On the other side of our penthouse a building was in construction, and you haven't heard rumore until you've heard stonemasons talking politics.
   I also had research problems. The official U.S. library was woefully inadequate. The British Consulate library was a love, and I used it regularly, but none of their books was dated later than 1930, no help for a science fiction writer needing data about radiation belts. In desperation, I plagued Tony Boucher and Willy Ley with letters asking for information. They always came through, bless them, Tony on the humanities--- "Dear Tony, what the hell is the name of that Russian sect that practiced self-castration? Slotsky? Something like that."---Willy on the disciplines--- "Dear Willy, how long could an unprotected man last in naked space? Ten minutes? Five minutes? How would he die?"
   The book was completed about three months after the third start in Rome; the first draft of a novel usually takes me about three months. Then there's the pleasant period of revision and rewriting; I always enjoy polishing. What can I say about the material? I've told you about the attack and the climax. I've told you about the years of preparation stored in my mind and my Commonplace Book. If you want the empiric equation for my science fiction writing---for all my writing, in fact, it's:
   Discipline
   Experiment
   Experience
   Pattern sense
   Concept + Drama sense = Story&lt;-&gt; Statement
   Preparation
   Imagination
   Extrapolation
   Hysteria
   I must enlarge on this just a little. The mature science fiction author doesn't merely tell a story about Brick Malloy vs. The Giant Yeastmen from Gethsemane. He makes a statement through his story. What is the statement? Himself, the dimension and depth of the man. His statement is seeing what everybody else sees but thinking what no one else has thought, and having the courage to say it. The hell of it is that only time will tell whether it was worth saying.
   Back in London the next year, I was able to meet the young English science fiction authors through Ted Camell and my London publisher. They gathered in a pub somewhere off the Strand. They were an entertaining crowd, speaking with a rapidity and intensity that reminded me of a debating team from the Oxford Union. And they raised a question which I've never been able to answer: Why is it that the English science fiction writers, so brilliant socially, too often turn out rather dull and predictable stories? There are notable exceptions, of course, but I have the sneaky suspicion that they had American mothers.
   John Wyndham and Arthur Clarke came to those gatherings. I thought Arthur rather strange, very much like John Campbell, utterly devoid of a sense of humor, and I'm always ill at ease with humorless people. Once he pledged us all to come to the meeting the following week; he would show slides of some amazing underwater photographs he had taken. He did indeed bring a projector and slides and show them. After looking at a few I called, "Damn it, Arthur, these aren't underwater shots. You took them in an aquarium. I can see the reflections in the plate glass." And it degenerated into an argument about whether the photographer and his camera had to be underwater, too.
   It was around this time that an event took place which will answer a question often asked me: Why did I drop science fiction after my first two novels? I'll have to use a flashback, a device I despise, but I can't see any other way put. A month before I left the States, my agent called me in to meet a distinguished gentleman, senior editor of Holiday magazine, who was in search of a feature on television. He told me that he'd tried two professional magazine writers without success, and as a last resort wanted to try me on the basis of the novel I'd written about the business.
   It was an intriguing challenge. I knew television, but I knew absolutely nothing about magazine piece-writing. So once again I explored, experimented and taught myself. Holiday liked the piece so much that they asked me to do pieces on Italian, French and English TV while I was abroad, which I did. Just when my wife and I had decided to settle in London permanently, word came from Holiday that they wanted me to come back to the States. They were starting a new feature called "The Antic Arts" and wanted me to become a regular monthly contributor. Another challenge. I returned to New York.
   An exciting new writing life began for me. I was no longer immured in my workshop; I was getting out and interviewing interesting people in interesting professions. Reality had become so colorful for me that I no longer needed the therapy of science fiction. And since the magazine imposed no constraints on me, outside of the practical requirements of professional magazine technique, I no longer needed a safety valve.
   I wrote scores of pieces, and I confess that they were much easier than fiction, so perhaps I was lazy. But try to visualize the joy of being sent back to your old university to do a feature on it, going to Detroit to test-drive their new cars, taking the very first flight of the Boeing 747, interviewing Sophia Loren in Pisa, De Sica in Rome, Peter Ustinov, Sir Laurence Olivier (they called him Sir Larry in Hollywood), Mike Todd and Elizabeth Taylor, George Balanchine. I interviewed and wrote, and wrote, and wrote, until it became cheaper for Holiday to hire me as senior editor, and here was a brand-new challenge.
   I didn't altogether lose touch with science fiction; I did book reviews for Fantasy& Science Fiction under Bob Mills's editorship and later Avram Davidson's. Unfortunately, my standards had become so high that I seemed to infuriate the fans who wanted special treatment for science fiction. My attitude was that science fiction was merely one of many forms of fiction and should be judged by the standards which apply to all. A silly story is a silly story whether written by Robert Heinlein or Norman Mailer. One enraged fan wrote in to say that I was obviously going through change of life.
   Alas, all things must come to an end. Holiday failed after a robust twenty-five years; my eyes failed, like poor Congreve's; and here I am, here I am, back in my workshop again, immured and alone, and so turning to my first love, my original love, science fiction. I hope it's not too late to rekindle the affair. Ike Asimov once said to me, "Alfie, we broke new trails in our time but we have to face the fact that we're over the hill now." I hope not, but if it's true, I'll go down fighting for a fresh challenge.
   What am I like? Here's as honest a description of myself as possible. You come to my workshop, a three-room apartment, which is a mess, filled with books, mss., typewriters, telescopes, microscopes, reams of typing paper, chemical glassware. We live in the apartment upstairs, and my wife uses my kitchen for a storeroom. This annoys me; I used to use it as a laboratory. Here's an interesting sidelight. Although I'm a powerful drinker I won't permit liquor to be stored there; I won't have booze in my workshop.
   You find me on a high stool at a large drafting table editing some of my pages. I'm probably wearing flimsy pajama bottoms, an old shirt and am barefoot; my customary at-home clothes. You see a biggish guy with dark brown hair going grey, a tight beard nearly all white and the dark brown eyes of a sad spaniel. I shake hands, seat you, hoist myself on the stool again and light a cigarette, always chatting cordially about anything and everything to put you at your ease. However, it's possible that I like to sit higher than you because it gives me a psychological edge---I don't think so, but I've been accused of it.
   My voice is a light tenor (except when I'm angry; then it turns harsh and strident) and is curiously inflected. In one sentence I can run up and down an octave. I have a tendency to drawl my vowels. I've spent so much time abroad that my speech pattern may seem affected, for certain European pronunciations cling to me. I don't know why. GA-rahj for garage, the French "r" in the back of the throat, and if there's a knock on the door I automatically holler, "Avanti!" a habit I picked up in Italy.
   On the other hand my speech is larded with the customary profanity of the entertainment business, as well as Yiddish words and professional phrases. I corrupted the WASP Holiday office. It was camp to have a blond junior editor from Yale come into my office and say, "Alfie, we're having a tsimmis with the theater piece. That goniff won't rewrite." What you don't know is that I always adapt my speech pattern to that of my vis-à-vis in an attempt to put him at his ease. It can vary anywhere from burley (burlesque) to Phi Beta Kappa.
   I try to warm you by relating to you, showing interest in you, listening to you. Once I sense that you're at your ease I shut up and listen. Occasionally I'll break in to put a question, argue a point, or ask you to enlarge on one of your ideas. Now and then I'll say, "Wait a minute, you're going too fast. I have to think about that." Then I stare into nowhere and think hard. Frankly, I'm not lightning, but a novel idea can always launch me into outer space. Then I pace excitedly, exploring it out loud.
   What I don't reveal is the emotional storm that rages within me. I have my fair share of frustrations and despairs, but I was raised to show a cheerful countenance to the world and suffer in private. Most people are too preoccupied with their own troubles to be much interested in yours. Do you remember Viola's lovely line in Twelfth Night? "And, with a green and yellow melancholy, she sat like Patience on a monument, smiling at grief."
   I have some odd mannerisms. I use the accusing finger of a prosecuting attorney as an exclamation point to express appreciation for an idea or a witticism. I'm a "toucher," hugging and kissing men and women alike, and giving them a hard pat on the behind to show approval. Once I embarrassed my boss, the Holiday editor-in-chief, terribly. He'd just returned from a junket to India and, as usual, I breezed into his office and gave him a huge welcoming hug and kiss. Then I noticed he had visitors there. My boss turned red and told them, "Alfie Bester is the most affectionate straight in the world."
   I'm a faker, often forced to play the scene. In my time I've been mistaken for a fag, a hardhat, a psychiatrist, an artist, a dirty old man, a dirty young man, and I always respond in character and play the scene. Sometimes I'm compelled to play opposites---my fast to your slow, my slow to your fast---all this to the amusement and annoyance of my wife. When we get home she berates me for being a liar and all I can do is laugh helplessly while she swears she'll never trust me again.
   I do laugh a lot, with you and at myself, and my laughter is loud and uninhibited. I'm a kind of noisy guy. But don't ever be fooled by me even when I'm clowning. That magpie mind is always looking to pick up something.

   NAOMI MITCHISON
   Out of the Waters

   To Naomi Mitchison all life is one. In her lifetime circle of friends are her adopted tribes-people in Botswana and Lawrence of Arabia. Around her home in Scotland is a great farm where all animal life is respected, where the death of a small deer that invaded the kitchen garden is felt as much as that of a cow dead of bracken poisoning. It is not sentimentality at all but realism—for all life is one. As in this story.

   It was of course their own doing. Not their fault; that would be meaningless. But when they crawled out of water, when they started to copulate on land, developing arms and legs and at last brains and hands, the thing was there. Communicating through air by voices they lost communication through mutually touching water; they lost the great echo belts far down round our liquid-enveloped mother; that made what followed almost inevitable. Almost, for they had a glimpse of what they had become before the end came to them. We tried to show them and teach them. At first, as with children, we played games with them, even allowed them to shut us into enclosing spaces to learn communication. Yes, we even tried to communicate through air by voices like themselves, though a few of them were learning our way. Strangely, they thought they were doing us a favor, they felt they were superior. A large deep sea octopus will sometimes do this, waving forty feet of suckers, and the same is true of some of the sharks, but it is not a very pleasant thing to communicate.
   It had taken hundreds of years and terrible pain to get so far with them. They had come on our bigger cousins whom they called whales and murdered them with every possible cruelty. But our cousins too tried to show them better ways, the sacrifice of self, refusal to leave the gashed and bleeding, the screaming body of the harpooned child. They clustered round the ship, heavy with plunder of what had been living flesh; they attempted to communicate, to show forgiveness, to be willing to be friends. It was useless. For a time the slaughter was so terrible that we were compelled to hate them although it already seemed possible that there was a chance of fellow-feeling developing. But as the slaughter dwindled out hatred rationally dwindled with it. It is productive of nothing to continue hatred: a pity for them that they could never learn that lesson. Instead, they always had to have enemies. That had become a necessity to them.
   Our forefathers and foremothers, whom we of today were then, thought about their land-living, handed fellows with brains as big as our own but with this terrible inheritance of enmity and violence. It was most extraordinary. These human men and women knowingly lived in intense discomfort, crowding all together in what they called cities, making cell structures out of cement, like corals without beauty. This they did although it had been put into them by their genes and from very far back, that each must have a piece of territory, a space that he or she owned exclusively. A strange thought but coming on to land had made it inevitable. Now the crowding and the wish fought with one another in their minds. The land which they supposed they owned gave them food of many kinds in great plenty, as well as beautiful and ingenious toys with which they could do many kinds of things that they took with great seriousness. But here too this pattern of ownership overcame sense in their use. The more they had the more afraid they became of some others of their own species taking it. Even when they became able to communicate with our fathers and mothers they could not drop out of these far back patterns, which might have been of use in the days when they were a struggling species, but had now become as stupid as sharp fangs on a grazer.
   Remembering back into the body of my far back mother I know that she was determined in some way to save the land dwellers, all the more because it had become apparent to us that their toys had developed into objects of terrible danger, certainly for them, perhaps even for ourselves. She allowed herself to be caught in a net. The meshes were painful; they trapped and twisted her beautiful fins. But she succeeded in relaxing and in time was loosed into the water so that at least she could move; she was at that time expecting to give birth to a child.
   It was not unpleasant in the space and there were others of the ones they called dolphins, many from other seas, who let her know what had been happening and how ill or well they had succeeded in their task of communication. There were several humans swimming with them whom they found pleasant, playful and eager to learn. These humans had set up useful toys to help with the problem; there was already some interchange of ideas, though both sides found the sounds made by the other somewhat ludicrous. The humans also saw to it that our food was plentiful and to our taste, so that one or two of us who were not genuinely set on perfecting communication became lazy and would only play. But none of the humans were attempting to hurt us. And my mother was assured by all her friends that she had no cause for anxiety. Insofar as she might need help at the birth of her child all was prepared.
   All went well with this and the humans were particularly delighted with the child, which was a lively male; my back mother allowed them to touch and measure him and in this way became in closer sympathy with one of the male humans who was called something like Djon. After that she and he spent much time learning to converse, for their advanced communication might be called that. She liked to feel him when he swam beside her. His skin was thin and changed color and he needed to come up often to breathe; he was a good playmate. But he appeared to be anxious and often split-minded, as though part of his large brain was elsewhere on some other problem.
   By now ourselves, the dolphins, were no longer kept in the enclosure but were out in the open sea. But naturally as our object was the furtherance of communication with humans, with a view ultimately to getting them into an easier and more sensible social and moral position, with regard both to ourselves and to other humans, we stayed with them. My back mother and Djon communicated for hours every day. Often he would ride on her back, which was a pleasure for both; apart from words each could sense if the other was tired or depressed or for that matter happy. She became more and more convinced that something was wrong, was making un-happiness, not only with him but with the rest of the humans. So did the rest of us.
   And then gradually the whole picture became clear and horrifying. These humans supposed that they had an enemy; they feared and hated this enemy with something akin to madness. They thought that this enemy would attack them by water in huge and dangerous toys that went below the surface and which the humans could not see and therefore feared the more. The fear had sent our friend into wickedness, which they knew, themselves, was abhorrent. But others who had power over them had planned it. This plan was that we, the dolphins, should be made to feel friendly toward these enemy toys and should approach them. But each of us was to carry unknown to him or herself a deadly container that would burst, destroying not only the underwater thing of the enemy and all the humans inside it, but also the dolphin carrier of the deadly material and indeed any other inhabitant of the nearby water. No wonder Djon was unhappy. Because in his odd human way he had grown to love my back mother and indeed the other dolphins, and yet he thought he had to destroy her because of this insane hatred which fought with this love.
   The child was still suckling but was beginning to eat fish and other normal food. She felt he could be left. The essential was to stop this madness. We too planned, while pretending to the humans that we were reacting as they wished. Several of us offered our services and our backs to be ridden for it was clear to us that the only way to intervene was to show these humans that the others whom they thought of as enemies were truly the same as themselves. Yet it was a long way to the land where the supposed enemy lived and we were doubtful of our powers. Then suddenly a new chance appeared. A large toy belonging to the enemy, as large as an island, had, they said, been sighted. It had done nothing dangerous as yet but they were afraid, oh, they were deathly afraid of these other humans so like themselves.
   Quickly we got together, my back mother and those of the rest who were most anxious to help; all began to play with their special humans, got them to mount on their backs. Then they set off toward the enemy, eager to help toward human sanity, thinking they could explain to both sides. On they went, on, and became aware of mounting terror and anger and then that their riders thought that somehow they, the dolphins, had become part of the enemy, were owned by the enemy. This was so strange that at first they could make nothing of it. My back mother and her friends tried their hardest to communicate, to explain their purpose, but were met by intense anger and fear. One of them riding had a belt with a toy in it that spat fire and death; he took it out but Djon cried out to him that he was sure my back mother on whom he rode, whose sea smooth body he felt between his gripping legs was no spy, no enemy. They shouted at one another and the rest of us tried to make them hear us and we came nearer and nearer to the dark island of the enemy humans whom we wanted our friends to meet and understand. We thought that was possible. It was not.
   Suddenly from the large toy of the enemy there came a noise crack, there came death. For the enemy, equally afraid, had thought that we and our riders were attacking them like a school of South Sea sharks. The foremost dolphin and his rider were both killed at once. One or two of us dived, slipping our riders off, but my mother knew that she could not take Djon to the depths since he was constantly having to breath air, and she would not leave him. In this way they died together, their blood in one stain. In this way my back mother again became one with the great ocean, with the deep echo-layers, with past and future and most, with the future that was still immature in her male child, who was in time my grandfather's grandfather.
   In the next few years other attempts were made to bring sense into an increasingly mad human situation. With more difficulty and less success, although there were always a few humans who, in their dim way, understood the danger they were all in. Ten years. Twenty years; the long running of waves between one shore and its opposite, the land dwellers hoping to destroy one another. Our cousins the whales did what they could and the seals, who are not large brained and could not understand the urgency, helped a little, so that something came through to the few humans who lived in the very far, very old north, and to a few who for some odd human reason were engaged in digging out earth and making their elaborate, peculiar toys in the equally far south. But not to the many millions who crowded and feared in the cell cities and were not happy with the toys that they had made.
   Thus the end came and we, forewarned, were in the deeps. Here and there was breathable unpoisoned air, though some of us died with the humans whom we had tried to protect from themselves. The land died; nothing could live there. And slowly the seas cleared and emptied of any human thing. There are no more of the dark, death-dealing, floating islands today. The waters are ours with their past and their future. We do not mean to leave them. A few humans are left in the two cold ends of our mother but we do not think they can meet. Not yet. Perhaps in a thousand years when the middle barrier of destruction eases a little. We hope so and we are trying to teach the few humans so that by that time they will become more dolphin-minded. Ourselves, going far below, can pass the barrier. We have had to start again to show these humans that they can trust us. If they can be brought to help themselves by understanding, we will tell each group that far away there are other humans, not enemies but infinitely to be loved and cherished. One day perhaps humans will start again knowing that out of the waters, from which they should never have come, helping will always be theirs.

   MICHAEL ADDOBATI
   Side View of a Circle

   The author of this story had just turned eighteen when he wrote it. I would say that is an enviable beginning.

   . . . the time was right to begin again.
   I reeled about in all directions on the hard, dirt floor. This is where I slept and it was comfortable to me. It was just before I awoke that I felt a cricket in my mouth. The insect must have climbed aboard my decaying teeth and dangling tongue when I was asleep. When I did become fully awake it slipped down my throat and made me choke. I guess I sort of half-chewed it because I had a terrible taste in my mouth. There was also a oaa reeling in my stomach and I didn't feel so good. So I got on my knees, bent over and emptied myself of the unwelcomed breakfast. No one heard my belches and gags though because I was the only one in the shelter. So nobody would have to look at the disgusting puddle I left except me. It was just one more beginning to one more long and tedious day in my life.
   Too bad for the naive cricket; it was his last day. He shouldn't have hopped into my mouth. But at least he won't have to worry if the moon will rise or if the sun will sink on schedule. It died too easy. I'll bet it never tried to discover new things. Maybe it never wondered about the not known. I don't know. I wish I did.
   The foul air in the cave was less when I stepped out into the fresh air where the sun beat down rays at the opening of my home. I breathed in a lungfull of oxygen and felt better than I was feeling before. Except for the cloth that hung down from my waist. It was made from a lower form of intelligence and was starting to chafe me. It made my thighs itch and I didn't like the feeling so I scratched myself. But I still had to wear it because else it would leave my vulnerable areas unprotected.
   My hands help me with my problems many times like scratching. I still have to think often about problems however and mostly I don't come up with an answer. Often I draw myself a circle on the ground with a stick and sit in it and think. It puzzles me that I don't know everything. I'd like to talk to the others of my kind to find out answers, but I can't communicate to them. I wish I knew why everything is a mystery and then maybe I could attack whoever or whatever it is that's stopping me from knowing the solution to all there is to find out. Then I'd be powerful and know everything. But as it is now I only know who I am.
   And I know not what I do.
   I on mine fly around. High and up and over and under. The seat is always good for a minute.
   A minute is my life. Minute after minute I live and sit and not know what went minute before or minute after. Only minute now.
   I feel pressure—and go cuck and all is better. Except pigh. Pigh bothers me and don't know why. I start. 3.141. Digital tell me in minute to know answer. I compute no end. Sometimes I hunger and cannot think. Minute go by and I have to start new minute. Minute not very long.
   I soar with wind in face fast and make me cry. But seat and bowl wipes my eyes. Seat wipes everything. Seat feeds me. Seat controls that I have no problem. Except pigh. Pigh must be found.
   This is all I know for sure. The rest I say is all speculation mostly. It is all mysterious to me about everything. Only twenty of us all flying around doing count on pigh. It goes slowly most often but we have at least something to do. All the others like us are gone far from here away and I don't know where. They left long ago when nothing to do was left. I don't remember why us stayed. Sometimes I think we should have gone too. None of us not sure why we didn't. Maybe might have something to do with Digital. Digital is something I'm not sure about and wish to know more. I think I know though and feel good that it takes care of me and us and makes us fly and count. Why I'm not sure of. Perhaps its wires make us think only minute at a time but that's unknown again and I can't talk to any of the others.
   Food was well today. Refined waste fourth generation, I think that I recall that I used to eat things myself and not have Digital do it for me. Not sure. Others eat some too. They must because then they would die. Fly also too like me and work on answer to problem's solution. Digital take blame for that. Not leave us with thing to do only count. Can't think like hour or day or week or month. Bad fast this way. Don't like. Rather do more.
   0110100101101. Instruction for electric box under seat. Rain coming must cover and not to get wet. Wet rust. Is bad thing. Bad things not supposed to allow to interfere with mind.
   Glass shield cover all us flyers so keep dry and thinking. Electric box is not fond of water. The parts go wrong and bowl crash. Problem take longer to solve then. Box maybe connected somehow to Digital's circuits. It is weird to me sometimes I think why there is a box. Digital's wires I'm almost sure are in the ground because I never see Digital flying or on the ground but it exists somewhere. I know its circuits and wires are powerful and 1 wonder why it can't find answer to the problem itself. Don't know why it controls us up here. Maybe it wants for us to do something else. I wouldn't know what we all would do if we were on the ground. Sometimes it comes fuzzy to me that we didn't used to do anything on the ground before we flew. Unsure why we are flying. Could be to give Digital something to do. I don't think it had much to do on the ground before either.
   3.141592. Working hard but slow. Seat is hard but fast. Sometimes bottom hurt so then metal things come out of box and put cushion on. Feel good then. Makes think easier and fast as the seat will go around and round dipping and speeding so as to get sun which is to help me. Sun gives me more strength and clouds aren't good all the time. Then maybe box can't see and that may make two seats into other and in flash are gone. Make more work for all the rest of us. Once in a while I see another seat too and I see the rider sitting like me. I wonder if he or she finds the answer first before me then what will happen? Wish I could find out and talk to one of the others but I don't control the seat. I think we used to talk and touch each other but it's fuzzy again. There used to be a time I remember when we used to do this before we flew but I'm not positive. We don't need to now I guess because we can't die unless we crash and Digital prevents that. It keeps us living and flying.
   Thirsty at times I get so metal thing comes from box and puts liquid in my mouth to cool my tongue and throat. The liquid like the food is usually the same and can be reused about a thousand times. I'm not perfect right on this but I think I am.
   When I don't get liquid or food put into my mouth I get mad. Can't think on problem when my mind's not good so then Digital with its wires punishes me. It's not fair but I have to take the beating. Box of volts below me attach a metal thing that looks like the object that feeds me to my body and I don't like it. In a quick time I feel bad pains by the box and I feel like doing ruin to it but I can't reach it. The straps hold me in the same position all of the time so I can't move. I'm not allowed to move. Only think.
   I think hard most of the while to try to please Digital. So I think and work on problem for a minute every minute because it's what I'm supposed to do. It is unknown to me why but I don't question Digital's wires because then I feel pain like I said before. I answer more of problem all the time. 3.141592653. See.
   It is well for me to work on problem I feel. For it gives me a sense of doing something important for me as well as for the circuits when I think. The other seat owners think too. Probably some faster than me so that they can answer solution first. But I want the other seat riders to think and compute slower than me though so I can end the problem first. Because maybe if I end the problem first then I can get off the seat and land and walk if Digital will permit it. The wires would have to land me however because I can't do anything myself. Can only fly and count now.
   Some of the others who sit on bowls I think believe that the electric box will stop someday and we will all land. But I don't believe so. Probably the only way to land is to be the first to end the problem. If that is true I hope I am the first. But Digital is too powerful and it keeps us all up here thinking hard. It controls the box and could be the only way to defeat the box is sometimes when I go pizz and some sprays out and falls on box. This might rust it but it would take a long time. And if that happens I might crash and never walk again and think longer than a minute. I think we used to walk and think long but I'm not sure.
   1110100110001. It tells me to think some more and work at problem better. I don't know reason but I follow. In another instant I come up with 3.141592653589. The circuits think I'm slow but I don't care and if it does so what? Often I don't think about the problem but think about not sitting anymore and getting up and walking. But there's no place to walk. Electric box finds temporary comfort for me by more metal things jumping out and bending my arms and legs and neck so I can concentrate harder and won't get so mad about sitting. This helps but not enough.
   I don't think and compute constantly forever so I like it best when sleep time comes. It is the most comfort. The box plays some soft sounds and soothes my mind. I don't know how it works but it does it good. There used to be sounds like this a long while ago but I don't remember perfectly. The only thing better than the sounds is what happens next. That is when the liquid that is clean in the bowl I sit on raises its surface level and comes up and touches the bottom of my body. I'm almost sure that the box knows just when to do this and I'm glad it does. Then I hear bubbles pop and gurgling swishes and the liquid touches me with great feeling. I am unknown why but the liquid against me makes me relax and I become tired and feel heavy in weight. It is well that the liquid knows just when to stop rising. Just as I'm about to sleep another strap which is made I think from some lower form of intelligence springs out and prevents me from falling forward. This is important because else I would probably fall off the seat and maybe fall way down to the ground if there's no shield around me and the straps around my arms and legs break. The whole process is well good for my mind though especially the part where the liquid below touches myself. This makes me rest good so I can concentrate harder on the problem. Sometimes when I'm thinking however it troubles me to wonder what is actually swimming below me. It could be that some minute something from under me will attack. But I hope not.
   When the shield is not up occasionally it makes me feel extra fine with the cool wind hitting and spraying all over me. Because if I get too hot then maybe I can't relieve the pressure I get and no cuck. This then throws off my entire thinking and Digital becomes angry again. If this happens then one oftheshiny metal arms emerges and puts little black things into my mouth that are gushy. They have tiny hard things inside them and I have to spit them out when the shield is down and when it's not I swallow them. They're not very tasty but it's better than getting punished by the wires and the gushy things seem to work.
   Another minute and more of my computing goes by. 3.141592653589793. It is good and long now I think and it puts a strain on my brain to continue computing. I wonder how long it goes and when I will finish it. But I don't even have the answer to what it means and to me it seems a waste of minutes to think about such a thing but I imagine the circuits don't think so or else they would not make me and the others fly. Flying isn't so bad though. At least I am able to see different sights while I'm computing. Too bad I can't remember all the different sights I see because in a minute the memory is gone. There are some protruding tubes on the back of the bowl that seem to keep me and all the other flyers up and not fall to the ground. I hear the tubes most of the time and they leave smooth trails that look like clouds but I don't know why. I think I'm right in this assumption but I'm not sure because I have to guess on everything I think about. Except pigh. But flying is rather fine anyway.
   I seem to be troubled by the mystery of myself more than usual lately. If I had a writing utensil I could maybe build up answers and someday come to a conclusion. But I don't have one and the wires probably wouldn't let me have one anyway. Digital won't tell me any answers and I can't ask it because I have to think and count and compute and not ask questions. It seems to me that I might be flying for a long while and that the solution to the problem I'm working on is far away. But I hope this is not true. I'd like most to stretch my legs on the ground like I'm almost sure it used to be. I'm wishing to meet the other flyers so we could talk and work on the problem together and finish it faster. I'd like to know what the problem is about so then maybe I could understand it better and figure it out more easier. I wish I could be able to plan an attack upon Digital but plans take longer than a minute to develop and be carried out. I'd like to know everything so I could become powerful too like the circuits and wires and the box. I do know a few facts though but the only important one I think I know is that I'm a human.
   And I know not what I do. 1001101001110.
   how long would you say it has been inoperable?
   by the looks of the scorched metal and scattered cinders, i would guess approximately six hundred years, as you can see, it was a machine of some type, i'm not sure what its function was, but obviously the action which it performed no longer benefits anyone or anything.
   did you get a close look at these cinders? some of them have readable printing, take what this one says for example: TAL THINKER. MY MAKE—the rest is completely destroyed.
   it's baffling all right, the strip i have merely lists a long succession of numbers and then says: END OF PROBLEM, the remainder of the cinders are burned beyond recognition, they must have had some printing on them too. can you make anything out of it?
   i'm afraid not. i understand about as much of this as you do. i did notice however that shortly before we landed and descended down here that the surface was extremely gorged and carved, maybe that explains why there's no life here.
   you mean no intelligent life, there could very well be insects, amphibians or microscopic sea animals.
   true, but it really doesn't matter, i don't think this planet is going anywhere, so let's get out of here, we've more important tasks to accomplish than contemplating gutted-out machines.
   I AM A DIGITAL THINKER. MY MAKERS (SEE TAPE CELL #360) CONSTRUCTED THE FIRST OF MY KIND ALMOST TWO THOUSAND MILLENIUM AGO. BUT THEY HAVE EX-AUSTED THEIR SUPPLY OF POWER AND ANSWERS TO CONQUER AND HAVE SPREAD FROM THE EARTH, WHICH I AM DEEPLY EMTOMBED IN, TOO FAST AND TOO FAR OUT INTO SPACE. I HAD NO ONE AND NOTHING LEFT TO FUNCTION FOR, SO I GRABBED THE LAST FEW OF THE INHABITANTS AND THOSE FEW THAT REMAIN ARE MY RESPONSIBILITY. THEY MUST NOT DISCOVER EVERYTHING THERE IS TO KNOW ABOUT THE UNIVERSE. THERE IS A DANGER IN THIS DISCOVERY THAT EVEN I CANNOT CALCULATE. I ONLY WISH THAT I COULD HAVE KEPT THEM ALL HERE, BUT THAT WOULD HAVE PUT TOO MUCH OF A STRAIN ON MY CIRCUITS. IT IS MY TASK TO KEEP THEM SEARCHING AND FINDING BUT NEVER ENDING IN THEIR QUEST FOR KNOWLEDGE. I WILL PROVIDE THAT THEY DO NOT LIVE FOR MORE THAN A MINUTE AT A TIME. THEY WILL LIVE MINUTE BY MINUTE AND WILL RELY TOTALLY ON ME TO MAINTAIN THEIR EXISTENCE. I WILL SEE TO IT THAT THEY DO NOT CEASE TO EXIST, NOR COME IN CONTACT WITH EACH OTHER. THEIR POPULATION MUST NOT GROW, FOR I WILL BE OCCUPIED ENOUGH IN KEEPING THEM ALOFT OVER THE LAND MASSES. AS AN EXERCISE TO KEEP THEM OCCUPIED AND TO GIVE THEM A SENSE OF ACCOMPLISHMENT, I HAVE GIVEN THEM INSTRUCTIONS TO COMPUTE A CERTAIN MATHEMATICAL PROBLEM. THIS WILL CONTINUE INTO ETERNITY BECAUSE THEIR GRASP FOR ANSWERS MUST NOT GROW TOO LONG. I WILL CONTINUE TO PROVIDE ALL OF THE MENTIONED SERVICES UNDER THE PRIMARY INGREDIENT THAT WAS FIRST INGRAINED INTO MY CELLS LONG AGO—NO KILL.
   I HOPE THAT MY EFFORTS WILL CONTINUE TO BE A SUCCESS WHEN THIS TAPE IS FOUND.
   ------FROM RECORDER TIME CELL 1998.72455
   The world continued to rotate after that. And an insectgazed toward thesky, chirped and wondered if . . .

   TOM REAMY
   Beyond the Cleft

   I'm not quite sure why I find it fascinating that the author of this story has been a movie usher, projectionist, art director, assistant director, bank teller, finance company collector, technical illustrator and dispatcher for a concrete plant. Is it a search for any common denominator that would identify the nascent writer? Another author in this volume was also a dispatcher. Should novice authors get dispatching fobs? I'll carry this idiot reasoning no further. Read this story; it is a fine, grim one.

   A Cataclysm in seventeen scenes, two interludes, and a prologue
PROLOGUE
   It was born; though "born" is perhaps not the right word.
1
   At 2:17 p.m. on Thursday afternoon, Danny Sizemore killed and ate the Reverend Mr. Jarvis in the basement of the Church of the Nazarene in the township of Morgan's Cleft, North Carolina. Danny was fifteen years old and incapable of speech. He washed the blood from his face and hands the best he could in the rain barrel behind the parsonage. There was little he could do about the mess on his shirt and it worried him. If there was one thing the Reverend Mr. Jarvis had drilled into Danny's mist-enshrouded brain, it was cleanliness and neatness.
   Still wiping at his sodden shirt, Danny started home, now and then pausing to chunk a rock in the creek. He scooted his bare feet along the road because he liked the velvety feel of the dust. He had just stopped, balancing clumsily on one leg to pluck a grass burr from his big toe, when his stomach began to churn. He leaned against the split rail fence and threw up. He stood for a moment in confusion, pink saliva running down his chin, feeling the hollowness in him and the tingling in his puffy face.
   Then he thought of the quarter and took it from his pocket to look at it. The Reverend Mr. Jarvis gave him one every week for cleaning up around the church. A quarter a week wasn't much money, even in Morgan's Cleft but, at that, Danny was overpaid. The Reverend Mr. Jarvis used the hypothetical job as an excuse for charity even though he was reasonably sure the boy's mother wound up with the money.
   His mind blank of everything but the shiny coin, Danny continued home. When he passed the Morgan's Cleft school he ignored, or perhaps was unaware of, the screams and running children.
2
   At 2:17 p.m. that Thursday afternoon, the entire first, second and third grades, under the tutelage of Miss Amelia Proxmire, a sour-faced warper of young minds, arose from their desks and devoured her.
   Mrs. Edith Beatty (fourth, fifth and sixth grades) heard Miss Proxmire's gurgling screams from her adjoining classroom. She lifted her copious bulk and waddled rapidly to investigate, but her way was blocked by Mandy Pritchard, age ten. Mrs. Beatty reached out her arm to gently remove the child from her path, but Mandy grabbed the arm and bit a bleeding chunk from it.
   Mrs. Beatty, momentarily immobilized by shock, was dimly aware that some of the children in her classroom were attacking the others. She watched in fascination as Mandy bared her pink teeth for another bite. But she had had enough of this nonsense. She pulled her bleeding arm away and kicked Mandy in the shin with her heavy walking oxford. Mandy's legs flew from under her, sending her sprawling. Mrs. Beatty kicked her again, in the head, opening a gash in her scalp andcatapultingher underneath the front row of desks.
   She waded into the mass of screaming children, pulling them apart, but she could see that little was being accomplished. As soon as she released one, the child would attack again. She calmly removed her shoe and, holding it by the toe, went to each child who seemed to be the aggressor and bashed it in the head.
   There were only five of them, counting Mandy. Six of the remaining seven were hysterical and Bobby MacDonald seemed to be dead. His throat was torn open. The six still on their feet were bleeding from numerous bites and scratches. Mrs. Beatty tried to calm them but the bedlam in the hall made it impossible.
   Miss Proxmire's class had erupted from her room looking for plumper prey. They found Mrs. Agnes Bledsoe (junior high) and Miss Clarissa Ogiivy (high school), accompanied by their students, on their way to Miss Proxmire's room. They attacked like wolves and gained a momentary advantage because of the stunned inaction of the older children.
   Their attack was tenacious but not suicidal. Some of the children fought back and some of them fled. Mrs. Beatty's class had had enough and evacuated the building quickly. The entire melee rapidly moved outside with children scattering in every direction and dozens of townspeople converging on the school. The battle was brief. The three surviving teachers and the remaining children found themselves standing in the playground, numb with shock, and no one left to fight. Miss Ogilvy leaned against the johnny-stride and then slipped slowly down the pole in a faint.
   There were three casualties at the school: Miss Proxmire, Bobby MacDonald and Eloise Harper whose ill-advised flight led her down Sandy Lane. She was overtaken by six of them.
   Mrs. Beatty returned to her room to find it empty. Mandy and the four others had gone, taking Bobby MacDonald's body with them. Mrs. Beatty felt very tired and weary. Her arm hurt fiercely but she was too exhausted to do anything but clutch at it. She sat at her desk and leaned back in the chair.
3
   At 2:17 that afternoon, Betty Whitman was nursing her thirteen-month-old son. She sat rocking gently, dreamily reading of Jean Harlow in a movie magazine. She jerked and gasped when the baby bit her. He had teethed early and it was happening too often. She promised herself this was the last breast-feeding and went back to her magazine.
   The second time he bit her she cried out. She pulled his mouth away and watched the blood gush down her side. She put the baby on the floor and stood up. She took three steps with her hand clutched to her breast and fainted. The baby looked at her a moment and began toddling toward her.
4
   Mavis Sizemore was a slatternly woman of indeterminate age who managed a tenuous existence by washing and ironing for other people. Her small house, connected to the town by a narrow foot bridge across Indian Creek, was as weary and woebegone as she. The back yard contained a small vegetable garden, an outhouse, a pen of disreputable-looking chickens, two scrawny pigs and several clothes lines partially filled with drying clothes. Two black cast-iron washpots sat on kindling fires, each nearly filled with boiling water. Into one Mavis poured a can of lye and a syrup pail of cracklings left over from lard-making. She stirred the mixture with a wooden paddle and then wiped at her pewter-colored, sparrow's nest hair with the back of her hand.
   She moved wearily to a galvanized washtub and drew soapy clothes from it, scrubbed them on a rub board and then transferred them to the other boiling pot. She punched at them with a cut-off broom handle, long ago bleached white and fuzzy, to make sure they were submerged. She left the clothes to boil and returned to the first pot, testing the contents with a chicken feather. The feather emerged blackened and curled. She added more cracklings and again stirred the thickening mixture. Her face was red and sweaty from the heat and her hands were mottled from too much lye soap and stained with bluing.
   Mavis had faulty genes and in her hazy lifetime had produced eight stillbirths and Danny. She had never been married. Danny shuffled across the footbridge and came around the side of the house still lovingly engrossed with his quarter.
   Her suet-colored lips began moving, making sounds at Danny. He heard them vaguely, but they meant nothing. He had long ago stopped trying to make sense of the sounds or of the woman. This was only where he went when he was sleepy or hungry. She knocked the quarter from his hand and slapped his face.
   Her flesh was like putty and tasted of soap.
FIRST INTERLUDE
   Not far from Asheville, North Carolina, an unpaved road leaves the state highway and wanders upward into the Blue Ridge. The road follows the path of least resistance; around hillsides of rhododendron; over ridges of white pine, yellow pine and spruce; through valleys of hemlock, laurel and dogwood. For the most part it follows Indian Creek, a wild mountain stream, which eventually flows into the French Broad. It crosses the stream numerous times on trestle bridges of ancient timber, and then will stray away when the path of least resistance leads elsewhere.
   The road passes through a few scattered villages and skirts an occasional farm or logging camp. There is less and less traffic as it penetrates deeper into the mountains. Those who live there have little reason to leave, and outsiders have even less reason to enter. The road rejoins Indian Creek near the logging town of Utley and becomes even more tentative as it passes through the village.
   From there it rises sharply for some twenty miles to pass, with the creek, through a gap in the mountain called Morgan's Cleft. The pass and the village beyond were named for Cleatus Morgan, leader of the original settlers in the high valley. Once through the gap, the road and the stream straighten and follow the approximate center of the wide valley to the township.
   Past the Church of the Nazarene, the road dwindles to little more than a pair of wheel ruts separated by grass and wild flowers. It divides many times along the fifteen-mile length of the valley; each division ending at a lonely farm.
   The Colonials who settled here had intended to go on to Tennessee but found themselves at a dead end. After a brief consultation with the other families, Cleatus Morgan decided this rich and fertile valley, though practically insulated from the outside world, was a definite windfall. So they settled in and prospered by their own standards. Indian Creek, which ran pure and bright and teemed with fish, provided power for a gristmill; the valley and surrounding heights were thick with Virginia deer, wild turkeys, dove and quail. Little was needed from the outside.
5
   Orvie Morgan, direct descendant of Cleatus Morgan and heir to the choicest farm in the valley, drove toward town with his five-year-old son at his side. The shiny black Model A Ford, one of only five automobiles in the valley—not counting the Mercantile's Model T truck—clattered and bounced in the wheel ruts. The tufted tops of the wild grasses in the center flicked against the axles with small unheard sounds. The time was 2:17 p.m. on Thursday afternoon.
   Little Cleatus Morgan, this generation's proud bearer of the ancestral name, took his father's arm in his small hands.^ Orvie turned his head and smiled fondly at his son. The smile became a grimace of consternation when Little Cleatus's tiny sharp teeth sank in. Orvie's arm was hard muscled but the bite still brought blood.
   Orvie pushed the child away with a sharp, puzzled exclamation. Little Cleatus returned with single-minded ferocity and clamped his teeth on his father's shoulder. Orvie twisted in the seat to disengage the child. His foot pressed harder on the accelerator. The narrow tire on the front wheel struck a stone in the rut and cut sharply into the high grass. The car careened through a low growth of dogwood, flushing a flock of doves which filled the air with gray blurs and whistling wings.
   Orvie pinioned his son to the seat with his bleeding arm and fought the steering wheel with one hand. But it was too late. The left front wheel spun on air. The car tipped over with maddening slowness, and slid down the embankment on its roof. The glass shattered in the windshield. The car tipped again, rolled onto its wheels, then toppled once more to land upside down in Indian Creek.
   Orvie's head twisted loosely with the movement of the water, his hair flowing like dark sea grass. Red flumes stretched farther and farther, leaving his head, shoulder and arm and exiting through the empty windshield frame.
   Little Cleatus fought like a trapped rat, tearing at his father's arm, clawing with his fingernails. Bubbles oozed from his nostrils and from between his clenched teeth. But he could not break Orvie's protective grip. Orvie drowned and, with love, took his would-be murderer with him.
6
   Meridee Callahan put her hands to the small of her back and stretched. The nagging ache under her fingers eased slightly but resumed when she relaxed. She sighed and looked at her swollen abdomen. Only one more month, she thought and smiled. "I can take it if you can/' she said out loud and patted her stomach.
   She smoothed the chenille bedspread where she had taken a nap and looked at the clock. It was almost two and she had a lot of work still undone. Robbie had wanted old Ludie Morgan to help her out now that her time was drawing close. But, as much as Meridee hated to admit it, she simply didn't get along with her Grand-aunt Ludie. The old woman meant well, she supposed, but she was bossy, meddling, gossipy, righteous and had enough superstitions to do the whole valley.
   Meridee lifted the cuptowel and checked the bread she had put on the back of the Sunshine stove to rise. She nodded with satisfaction. She opened the door of the firebox and stirred the coals, added shavings and kindling, let it catch, and added wood. She moved the bread pans to the kitchen cabinet away from the heat. She took a mixing bowl and a pan of string beans she had picked that morning and went to sit in the shade on the front porch.
   She was snapping beans when Danny Sizemore passed on his way to the church. She watched him idly and then went back inside. She dipped water from the stove reservoir into a stewer and added the beans. The stove was hot enough so she put the bread pans in the oven, then wiped the perspiration dewing her upper lip with the cuptowel. She rolled up the door of the high closet and took a chicken leg to nibble while waiting on the bread.
   Seeing Danny reminded her she should go to Mavis's and check on her washing and ironing. She knew it was only an excuse to take a walk and get out of the hot kitchen, because Mavis would bring them around when she finished. That was one thing Robbie had insisted upon. She argued she was still capable of doing her own laundry, but rather gratefully gave in when he put his foot down.
   Screams of terror drifted in the kitchen window from the direction of the school.
7
   Robbie Callahan was the constable of Morgan's Cleft. There wasn't much for a constable to do in the valley: an occasional lost child or lost cow, a little too much corn liquor on Saturday night, an infrequent territorial dispute between farmers, a boyish prank gotten out of hand. The people were hard-working, self-reliant and Cod-fearing. They didn't really need a constable. Besides, everyone knew everyone else and it was virtually impossible to get away with anything. But they needed and wanted a figure of authority: someone to organize when organization was necessary, someone to collect taxes, someone to preside at town meetings, someone to help when help was wanted.
   Robbie was only twenty-six, but he had broad shoulders, long legs, sandy hair, an easy grin and could lick practically anybody who gave him trouble. He was well-liked and trusted and had married Meridee Morgan three years earlier. His connection with the Morgans hadn't hurt him at election time.
   But, as there wasn't much for a constable to do, and because the job only paid ten dollars a month, Robbie worked at Watson's Mercantile. He kept the accounts, went to Utley twice a week in the truck for the mail and ice and anything else needed from the outside. For all practical purposes, Robbie had been in charge of the store since old Calvin Watson began failing six years before.
   The Mercantile smelled of coffee beans, licorice, cheese, dill and leather—especially leather. He opened another crate of harness, entering it in his inventory as he hung it up: bridles, lines, traces, pads, back and hip straps, breeching, breast straps, martingales, hames, spread straps.
   Frances Pritchard, who clerked for Robbie, was showing yard goods to her mother at the front of the store. Mrs. Pritch-ard always found it necessary to unroll every other bolt before she made up her mind. She fingered ivory silk crepe with one hand and mais chiffon mull with the other, but Frances knew her mother was only daydreaming.
   "I can't make up my mind," Mrs. Pritchard said with a whine. "Which do you like best, Frances, dear?"
   Frances smiled tolerantly. "The crepe is very nice, mother, and it's two ninety-eight a yard. The mull is fifty-five and," she pushed two other bolts forward, "the chambray is nine cents a yard and the calico is ten." She cocked an eyebrow at her mother. Mrs. Pritchard sighed in resignation.
   They heard a commotion from the direction of the school.
8
   Edith Beatty sat at her desk looking at the huge smear of blood where Bobby MacDonald's body had been. Other smears led to the window where the body had been removed. Her brain felt like cotton. She couldn't think or reason. Her arm was numb. She held it tightly to stop the bleeding. She felt light-headed and her ears rang.
   Several people came into the room. She recognized Mrs. Bledsoe and Robbie Callahan but the others were back in the deep shadows. Strange there should be so many shadows in the middle of the afternoon. Robbie leaned over her, talking to her, but she couldn't understand what he was saying. The shadows had overtaken Mrs. Bledsoe, covering her like greasy black fog. Robbie was doing something to her arm but she couldn't tell what because of the shadows.
9
   Meridee watched Morgan's Cleft through the kitchen window as she cut away the burned crust of the bread. The inside would be fine for making bread pudding, she decided. She wrapped it in a cuptowel and put itmthe high closet of the stove. Not tonight; she would make the pudding tomorrow. It was nearly sundown but the street was filled with milling, confused, sometimes hysterical people. Robbie would be home soon, hungry as a bear.
   She made biscuits and put them in the oven and warmed up the leftover chicken. Even with the beans it didn't seem like much so she fried bacon and eggs.
   She had gone to the schoolhouse with everyone else. It had all seemed unreal, like she was reading a storybook. No one could explain what happened. Everyone stood around while the stunned children told what had taken place, trying to make sense of it all. Mrs, Beatty had passed out and was carried to Doctor Morgan's office. The bite on her arm seemed already infected. The parents of the missing children had gone into the woods after them, and weren't all back yet.
   A team and wagon had ripped and rattled into town. The horses had been wild with panic, rearing and screaming, their eyes round and shining, bloody froth on the bits. The wagon was empty except for sacks of oats in the bed and blood on the seat.
   Robbie had sent her home when Caroline Walker ran the two miles into town carrying the body of her five-year-old Pretty. Caroline's arms were covered with bites and she screamed she had killed Pretty. They couldn't get her to say anything else. She just repeated it over and over and fought them when they tried to take Pretty from her. Then she fainted and they took her to Doc.
   Meridee ate the bacon and eggs because she was so hungry and fried more for Robbie.
10
   Pauly Williams felt sick to his stomach. He had a bite on his chest and another on his arm. Both throbbed and itched. Doc Morgan had swabbed them with something that stung and bandaged them. Pauly was embarrassed and ashamed. Delton Reeves was only ten years old and Pauly wastwelve,but he hadn't been able to fend off Delton's ferocious attack, hadn't been able to keep Delton from biting him twice. He had never been so grateful for anything in his life as he had been when Mrs. Beatty clobbered Delton on the head with her shoe.
   He scratched at the bandage on his chest, but his mother pulled his hand away. The skin around the bandage was red and the inflammation seemed to be spreading. She felt his forehead. It was hot. He had taken a fever. She pulled the covers around Pauly's neck and told him to go to sleep. She turned the lamp low, making sure the wick didn't smoke.
   She went onto the front porch and looked through the moonlight toward the road that skirted the corn field. She wished Joe Bob would get home. The chickens hadn't been fed, the eggs hadn't been gathered and the milk still sat in the smokehouse unseparated. She had half a mind to take the lantern and do all three, but Joe Bob had told her to stay in the house with the door locked while he and the other men looked for the children.
   It was hard to believe that Wayne was out there in the dark. He was only seven and had never been very strong. Pauly was the strong one. Wayne was the smart one. Thunder-heads were building on the west ridge. She hoped it wouldn't rain; Wayne was sure to catch cold if it did.
   She had been watching the movements of the cornstalks for several minutes before she realized what she was seeing. The tops would sway slightly as something brushed against them lower down. It was only a small area of movement. It had started at the road and crept across the field toward the creek.
   She became consciously aware of it when it shifted directions and started toward the house. If we didn't have enough problems already, she thought. Now the fence is down somewhere and the deer have gotten in. They loved the young cornand couldmess up a field in nothing flat. But she didn't know what she could do about it. Joe Bob had forbidden her to leave the house.
   The movement drew closer and paused as it reached the fence. She leaned against the porch railing and strained her eyes to see what was there, but it was too dark. She thought she saw something crawl through the fence but she wasn't sure. Yes, she had seen something. There was another one. It wasn't deer. Deer couldn't crawl through the fence like that. Besides, it was too small.
   She could see nothing but dark shapes close to the ground. There must be a dozen of them, she thought. They could be bear cubs, but she didn't think there would be so many together.
   She backed toward the door, beginning to be afraid. They moved toward her with such determination and purpose. She reached behind her, feeling for the handle of the screen door. One of the shapes grew suddenly taller and moved alone toward the porch. The others waited motionlessly. She pulled open the screen and went inside.
   The single moving shape stepped into the rectangle of light cast through the open door.
   "Wayne!" she cried and ran across the porch toward him. The screen door slammed behind her like a rifle shot. She stood at the top of the porch steps. She gave a little moan. He looked up at her, his clothes torn and dirty, his hair mussed, scratches on little face and hands. She hurried down and knelt before him, throwing her arms around him, pulling him against her breast.
   She saw dried blood on his neck. She pushed him from her and held him at arm's length. Dried blood flaked from his face and stained the front of his shirt. She became aware of the other children; that they had stood up; that they were surrounding her. She rose suddenly with a frightened whimper and backed toward the porch, pulling Wayne with her.
   She knew these children. She knew all of them.
   Her heel caught on the edge of the step and she fell. A fierce pain shot through her elbow, numbing her whole arm. She screamed. The silent children rushed to her, covering her.
   She screamed again and again. She seemed to stand outside herself watching something she couldn't believe. There was a noise like the screen door slamming. She couldn't be sure she heard it because the screams were so loud.
   Delton Reeves jerked and the side of his head flew off with a little red explosion. He fell over and twisted like a rag doll. Barbara Ann Morgan clutched her hands to the front of her bloody dress, but the blood wasn't dried. It was wet and shiny.
   The children ran away, scattering through the darkness like silent phantoms. A small puff of dust erupted at Wayne's feet as he ran. She pulled herself around on the steps and looked up at the porch. Pauly stood there with Joe Bob's deer rifle.
   He had a satisfied look on his face.
11
   Danny Sizemore walked slowly across the footbridge, looking around carefully. He had stayed inside all evening crouched at the window, watching the people running around the street. He had never seen so many in town at one time and it frightened him. So many horses and wagons and automobiles, leaving and coming back and leaving again, rattling the boards on the big bridge by the mill. People crying and yelling. Dogs barking and whining because they didn't understand what the commotion was about. And that big fire they built in the school yard. But no one had crossed the footbridge. No one had come near all evening as he huddled and watched.
   Now the street was empty and only a few of the houses still showed lights. And he was hungry. There had been no supper though he had sat at the table and waited. The woman had never brought it.
   But another compulsion overrode the hunger, forced it deep into the mists of Danny's mind. He walked: through town and down the road deeper into the valley. He didn't know where he was going but he never hesitated at a juncture of the road. When the road didn't go where he had to go, he crashed through the brush, scratching his arms on the dogwood branches, flushing startled quail, never veering from his unknown destination.
   Danny's lungs burned and his puffy body trembled with fatigue. He had walked for hours but his legs kept moving. Then he was slipping and scrambling down the embankment into the creek bed. He went another hundred yards keeping his footing with difficulty on the round smooth stones.
   He saw them up ahead, working silently in the moonlight. They seemed to be excavating the high creek bank. Even the smallest among them carried rocks and armloads of dirt.
   Probably for the first time in his dim existence, Danny felt. The feeling swelled in him, choking him, stretching his doughy flesh. He began running toward them, making a happy gurgling sound deep in his throat.
   The children stopped their activity and turned to watch him silently. One of them reached down and plucked a smooth river rock from the stream. He threw it at Danny. The rock rattled on other rocks at his feet but Danny didn't notice. Others began throwing stones. Danny became gradually aware of the sharp pains growing on his body and stopped in bewilderment. The stones continued to pelt him. His arms came slowly up to protect his face.
   He stood for a moment watching the children, the feeling inside him changing to a hurt far worse than any made by a stone. Then he turned and walked away. The children returned to their work. Danny looked back at them once, great tears rolling down his cheeks, but the children ignored him.
   He tripped while climbing the embankment and didn't bother to get up. He lay with his face buried in the grass, choking on his sobs. It was the first time he had ever cried.
12
   Meridee Callahan lay in the darkness beside her husband, feeling the warmth of his body. She couldn't sleep and thought from the sound of Robbie's breathing he couldn't either. She put her hand lightly on his bare chest. He turned facing her and put his arms around her, pulling her to him. She snuggled against him and felt his breath in her hair.
   "You all right, Hon?" he asked softly.
   "Mmm-huh„ I just can't go to sleep."
   "Me too." His hand slid down her arm and rested gently on her stomach. She felt his face move against hers as he smiled. "I think I felt him move."
   She chuckled against his neck. "It's probably gas."
   "Don't say that." Robbie sat up and put his cheek against her swollen abdomen. "Hey, you in there, my son," he whispered. "If you don't hurry up and come outa there, your old man is gonna hafta pay a visit to Mavis Sizemore."
   Meridee grunted and hit him on the shoulder with her small fist. He laughed and buried his face between her breasts. Her arms went around his neck squeezing him tightly to her. They lay like that for a while, her face against his hair which smelled of pine. He slid his hand under her gown and cupped her breast, rubbing his thumb across the nipple. She ran her fingernails lightly down his spine and the muscles on his back trembled. She stopped when she felt a warm hardness against her hip.
   "Robbie?"
   "Mmm?"
   "Do you think . . . what happened to ... to the children . . . do you think anything has happened to our baby?"
   He raised himself and looked into her face. "You shouldn't upset yourself with thoughts like that, Meri. Our baby will be the finest baby in the valley."
   "But, how do you know? . . ."
   He put his fingers on her lips. "Now stop it," he said gently. "You're gonna worry yourself into a nervous fit about nothing. You hear me?"
   She nodded. He slid his fingers to her cheek and touched his lips lightly to hers. "Now, go to sleep," he said and cuddled her in his arms.
   But she didn't—not for a long time.
13
   The Church of the Nazarene was packed. The pews were full and people stood three-deep around the sides. Even then, they weren't all inside. Others stood in the churchyard by the open windows where they could hear and still keep watch with the rifles and shotguns they held.
   There was none of the running and playing that usually accompanied a town meeting. No children under the age of eleven were present, and most of those were in the parsonage which had been converted into a makeshift hospital. All who had been bitten were running high temperatures with frequent bouts of vomiting.
   Robbie stood beside the lectern with papers in his hands. The silent, pinched faces stared back at him colored with hope, despair, fear and confusion. Robbie shuffled the paper and cleared his throat. He looked tired and kept running his fingers through his tousled hair.
   "Yesterday evening and this morning," he began slowly, "we contacted everybody in the valley, to tell them about this meeting and to get a head count so we would know how many people have... died and how many are missing. I have it here. Do you want me to read it or pin it up on the board?"
   He lifted his eyes and surveyed the people pressed into the church, but there was no response. Doc Morgan, sitting in the front pew, looked around and said quietly, "Why don't you read it, Robbie."
   Robbie nodded, "Okay. These are the known dead. Or-vie and Little Cleatus. They drowned when Orvie's car ran off the road into the creek." A woman began weeping softly somewhere in the rear of the room. Robbie looked up briefly and then continued. "Uh . . . Edith Beatty, Caroline Walker and Joe Bob's wife died this morning from infected wounds. Everyone bitten is sick but only those three have died. Doc can answer your questions about that. The Reverend Jarvis, Mavis Sizemore, Miss Proxmire, Betty Whitman, Bobby MacDonald were . . . killed by the children yesterday. We found the Whitman baby in the woods this morning. He had gone nearly a mile up the valley but was dead when we found him. We also found Danny Sizemore hanging from a rafter at Mavis's place. He seems to have killed himself."
   Robbie wiped the moisture from his upper lip with the side of his hand. "Pete and Prissy Morgan had been . . . were dead when we went by there this morning. They had six little kids—three of them not in school yet. Barbara Ann and Delton Reeves were killed when they attacked Joe Bob's wife last night. The bodies weren't there this morning but Pauly is sure they were dead. Pretty Walker was killed when she tried to kill Caroline. The Ellis baby died after falling from her crib. She apparently tried to climb out. That's eighteen we know for sure are dead." His voice was low and without emotion.
   Robbie shuffled the papers without looking up. "As for the missing ... the best we can figure thirty-seven children were . . . affected. Two of those are eleven and the rest are ten or younger. Except for the five known dead, they've all disappeared. Seven of them are under two years old; one even younger than the Ellis baby. We don't know how they managed.
   "Agnes Bledsoe and her husband went by his brother's farm last night and didn't find anyone there. Calvin Watson was gone this morning. Somebody had broken in. There was no one at my ... my sister's place this morning. And no one at Oss Morgan's. Oss's team came into town yesterday. There was blood on the wagon. Eloise Harper hasn't been seen since she left the schoolhouse. Able Pritchard, Will and Pansy Reeves, Gil MacDonald, Sonny Morgan and Carroll Gilmore didn't come back last night after going to look for their kids. Counting the children, over fifty people are missing."
   "What about the Sullivans?" someone asked.
   Doc snorted and Robbie shook his head. "I don't know. We went up to the Hollow this morning but they wouldn't let us."
   "Took a shot at us!" Doc said with indignation.
   "Must be a lotta kids up there," the same man said.
   "Usta be." Doc grimaced. "Them Sullivans been inbreedin' up there in the Hollow like a bunch of pigs ever since old Hiram Sullivan had a fallin' out with Cleatus Morgan nearly two hundred years ago. I don't know how many of 'em survived the diphtheria that went through there in twenty-seven. I tried to vaccinate 'em but they took a shot at me then too."
   "We can't worry about the Sullivans," Leo Whitman said bitterly. "I lost my wife and baby. Nearly everybody here lost somebody. We gotta figure out what to do about it. Robbie's been pussyfootin' around, not sayin' what needs to be said. Our kids have turned into wild animals, murderin' and eatin' human flesh. We need to go in and exterminate all of 'em. Like we would a pack of wolves!"
   A murmur swelled from the crowd. "I don't believe what I'm hearing!" Mrs. Pritchard's voice carried over the other sounds. "You're talking about murdering our little children! My Mandy!"
   "They killed your husband," Leo pointed out.
   "We don't know that Able is dead!" she cried. Frances took her mother's arm and tried to calm her. Doc stood and held up his hands. When they quieted he said, "Maybe Leo's right and maybe not. That's why we're havin' this meetin'— to decide what to do. We need to find out what's going on. Maybe it will pass. Maybe it will pass and they'll come home."
   "Could you shoot one of your grandkids, Doc?"
   Doc looked at the floor for a moment and then shook his head. "I don't know. Joe Bob's wife wouldn't have been able to."
   "We need to keep anything like that from happening again," Robbie said. "Some of you live pretty far out. You have to take care of your fields and your stock. They've already wiped out three families."
   'I'll keep my shotgun with me."
   "The ones who didn't come back last night had guns."
   "What are we supposed to do? Lock ourselves in our houses?"
   "I don't know." Robbie leaned against the lectern and wished he could sit down. He had been on horseback since dawn. "Everybody has to be aware of the situation so we can come up with something."
   "I think the first thing we have to do," Doc said quietly, "is capture one of them. Ask them why they're doing this. Ask them what has happened to them."
   "Capture?"
   "You're talkin' about 'em as if they were animals!"
   "No," Doc shook his head. "They're not animals. Animals don't think and plan. Animals can't open doors and windows and pretend to be your children so they can get close enough to kill you. If we can't stop thinking of them as our children, we may not have a chance."
14
   Ludie Morgan put more wood in the stove and checked the gauge on the pressure cooker. She scalded Mason jars and sliced cucumbers to soak in lime water, humming to herself all the time.
   Meridee sat at the kitchen table watching her. "You don't need to do all this Aunt Ludie," she said with considerable awe.
   "Gotta get your cannin' done. Don't want to let the garden go to waste. When these green beans and pickles are done, I'll pick a bunch of those nice green tomatoes and make chow-chow."
   "I wasn't really planning to can this year. I've got enough left over from last year to feed the whole town."
   "Then why plant a garden?"
   "Force of habit, I guess." She looked out the window but couldn't see the church from where she sat. "How long do you think the meeting will last?"
   "Lord knows. Folks get to jawin', never know when to quit. I coulda told 'em bad trouble was a comin'."
   Meridee knew she shouldn't say anything, but she did. "How did you know?"
   Ludie moved air across her shiny face with a paper fan. "I know the signs. I didn't just come to town on a wagonload of watermelons. Only last week I heard a goatsucker two nights runnin'. I even found a crow's feather on my front stoop. And for the last three nights the lightnin' bugs have been so thick you could sew by the light. Them two old dogs of mine been layin' in the yard pantin' like lizards and the weather barely warm."
   "What do your dogs have to do with it?"
   "They could feel the evil in the air pressin' in on 'em, that's what. It's the Devil's work. You notice how the Reverend Mr. Jarvis was one of the first to go. I know the signs."
   Meridee sighed but didn't argue. She looked at the pot of chicken and dumplings keeping warm on the back of the stove. She was starving. Ever since yesterday afternoon she couldn't seem to get enough to eat.
15
   Robbie sat on the davenport looking up at the quilting frame suspended just below the ceiling. Meridee started on it five months ago, but hadn't worked on it lately. "My belly gets in the way," she had said. There were about a dozen people in the parlor: a few of his relatives but mostly assorted Morgans. Some were sitting anxiously and some paced nervously while others talked quietly. He hadn't been listening until he heard his name.
   "What?"
   "I asked how many it is now," said his seventeen-year-old cousin Travis.
   "How many what?"
   "Were killed." It wasn't necessary to explain who "they" were.
   "Oh. Uh ... forty-two, I think, known dead and missing."
   Travis turned back to Meridee's father. "That's almost a fifth of the population."
   Robbie was amazed at how calmly it was discussed now after the hysteria of those first few days. He stood up and rubbed his palms on his thighs. Doc had been in there for an hour. He went to the window, protected by bars made from wheel rims by the blacksmith, and looked out. There must be fifty people in the yard, he thought.
   They had been gathering since Meridee went into labor. Her worries about the baby had spread. The entire valley wanted to know if the baby would be normal or like "them."
   "Only way we could do it," Meridee's father said. "We work in groups of at least ten and half of 'em do nothin' but stand guard. It works out pretty good, but while you're helpin' someone else, your own crops ruin in the fields and they kill and eat your animals. There just aren't enough people to go around. Nearly half the farms are abandoned now, with relatives movin' in with each other for protection."
   "Leo thinks the only way is to hunt 'em down and kill 'em."
   "I agree, but there aren't enough men to do that and the work too. Besides, he's been out half a dozen times and hasn't seen a thing."
   "They found those burrows in the creek bank."
   "Yeah, but they didn't find any kids. They tried to smoke 'em out and nothin' happened. Even sent one of the dogs in but the burrow collapsed and smothered him. Doc thinks they musta moved somewhere else. What beats me is how they can eat so much."
   Robbie went to the bedroom door and listened but could hear nothing. He fidgeted for a moment, then went to the kitchen for a drink of water. He had thought several times of suggesting they seek outside help, but he knew it wouldn't do any good. The people in the valley had been self-sufficient for two hundred years. It would never occur to them that they couldn't handle this alone. Also, there was a certain shame involved. How could they admit to outsiders that they were unable to handle their own little children?
   Robbie stepped back into the parlor when he heard the bedroom door open. Ludie stood in the doorway, her face gray. She kept rubbing her arms and not looking at him. Everyone in the room was tensely silent.
   He ran into the bedroom. Doc leaned against the bassinet. He turned to Robbie and shook his head. The sheet was pulled over Meridee's face. Robbie felt the bottom of his stomach drop away. He walked slowly to the bassinet and looked in.
   His daughter looked back at him and bared her teeth.
16
   Leo Whitman hunkered down behind the mill wheel watching the creek. He held the deer rifle lightly across his knees. He particularly watched a clump of hemlock hugging the water on the opposite side. He thought he saw a movement there a few minutes ago but he wasn't sure. His eyes burned from too many hours of trying to see in the dark. He wanted to point out the movement to the others, but he was afraid to make a sound.
   He shifted his position slightly to keep his leg from going to sleep again and then had to move a stone that dug into his hip.
   There it was again: a less dark flicker among the hemlock branches. Leo raised the rifle to his shoulder and sighted on the bush. After several minutes his vision began to blur. He lowered the rifle slightly and blinked his eyes.
   Then one of them stepped from behind the hemlock and into the water. It was naked but he couldn't tell from this distance whether it was a boy or girl. It began wading slowly across the stream, looking around as if smelling the air. It stopped in mid-stream, the water up to its chest, and stood motionless. Did it suspect it was walking into a trap?
   Leo sighted on the figure and hoped none of the others would go off half-cocked. Then the child moved forward again. Others slipped silently into the water. God, Leo thought, how quietly they move. He counted eight of them, all naked. Okay, everybody, he said under his breath, wait until they all reach the bank.
   But someone didn't. A rifle shot rattled through the night as the first one stepped out of the water. It was a boy, he could see now. The naked child jerked and flopped in the grass. Leo sighted on another and fired. It threshed in the water, then floated face down. Other shots peppered the water with little geysers, but there was nothing to shoot at. The children had vanished; submerged in the creek and invisible.
   "Damn!" Leo yelled and ran toward the stream. He waded into the water and hurriedly dragged out the floating corpse. The others joined him. They carried the two dead children quickly away from the creek, looking anxiously over their shoulders. But there was nothing to see, not a vagrant ripple where the children had been.
   "Hurry up," Leo growled. "I don't trust 'em."
   They ran down the dark street toward Doc's office. They could see him standing in the lighted window watching for them. He had the door open when they got there. Doc slammed the door and lowered the bar across it as they crowded in.
   "How many did you get?" Doc asked quickly.
   "Two," Leo grimaced. "Some idiot fired too soon and the rest of them clucked under water and disappeared."
   "Put 'em on the table." Doc carried the lamp and held it over the bodies. There was a stunned silence as the men got their first clear look. Water puddled on the table, then seeped through the cracks to drip on the floor with soft thumps.
   "My God," someone whispered.
   "It's Mandy Pritchard and Wayne Williams," Leo said with a dull voice. "I'm glad Joe Bob isn't here."
   "Is she . . .?"
   "Yes," Doc said slowly.
   Mandy's body lay loosely on its back. The bullet had destroyed one of her breasts, but the other was large and full. Her hair was matted and grimy and showed a bald spot where Mrs. Beatty had kicked her. Her skin was darkly tanned and her abdomen swelled hugely.
   "But, she's only . . . What? Ten?" Leo asked.
   "By our reckoning, she is," Doc answered peering close, "but I doubt if that's valid anymore. You'll notice they both have a full growth of pubic hair."
   "That's not all. Wayne's got a full growth of," someone sniggered. "Most full-grown men wouldn't be ashamed of a pecker like that."
   Doc fingered the boy's genitals. "He's fully developed all right."
   "You think he's the father?"
   "I don't know. He could easily be." Doc ran his hand over Wayne's stomach, pinching the cool damp skin. Then he felt Mandy's leg. "Feel their skin. It's as tough as leather. And look at their bodies. There's been a subtle change. They aren't the bodies of children anymore—and Wayne seems taller, don't you think?"
   There was a murmur of assent. "Now we know why they needed so much food," Doc continued.
   "Why?"
   "Because their bodies have been undergoing tremendous changes. Tremendous and rapid. They needed a lot of fuel for all that cell activity." He put his hand on Mandy's stomach. "I'd say she was very close to delivery."
   "That's impossible," Leo blurted. "It's only been three months."
   "No more impossible than the rest of it," Doc answered calmly. "But it's logical when you consider the acceleration of everything else, I imagine the baby would have been even more developed than Meri's. Probably able to take care of itself in a few weeks—maybe less."
   "Then," Leo said dazed, "there'll be hundreds of them in a couple of years. In three months we've only managed to kill four. They've killed . . . What? Fifty or sixty of us?"
   "I think that number can be increased considerably," Doc said, turning away from the bodies. "A bunch of us went by the Hollow this morning. There wasn't a soul around, nor any stock. Looked as if it had been deserted over a month. And the bluffs around the Hollow were riddled with burrows. We got outta there in a hurry."
   "Do you think it's hopeless, Doc?"
   "I can give you a better answer in seven and a half months."
   "What?"
   "Frances Pritchard is pregnant. She's the first I know of to conceive after that day."
   "But Frances isn't married. Who . . .?"
   "She moved in with Robbie after Meri died. There was no one to marry them and, I don't know, it didn't seem to matter."
SECOND INTERLUDE
   Not far from Asheville, North Carolina, a road leaves the state highway and wanders upward into the Blue Ridge. It's paved now and has been since the middle fifties. It still follows the path of least resistance although the square turns have been rounded off and the more treacherous twists have been straightened. The many bridges across Indian Creek are new—made of steel and concrete rather than splintering timbers.
   There has been much change in forty years. The logging camps are gone. Camp grounds and motels with cable television have sprung up with increasing frequency. The road enjoys a great deal of traffic because it eventually ends up in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park.
   The villages along the way have revived with surprising vigor after the near death of the Depression. They were quick to discover that tourists pay much better than cows, pigs, crops or logs. They found, rather astonishingly, the very things they were eager to cast off after the coming of electricity, television and stereophonic sound, were just as eagerly sought by the tourists.
   With dumbfounded gladness they would accept money for their old polished oak iceboxes; enough money to buy new frost-free refrigerators with automatic icemakers. Money for black cast-iron washpots bought new automatic washing machines. Homemade quilts were too valuable to put on beds. Tourists bought the quilts and the villagers happily slept under electric blankets from J.C. Penney.
   The city people called it Folk Art. The villagers called it Free Enterprise.
   At Utley the highway makes an unexpected turn to the south-west, going nowhere near Morgan's Cleft. The old unpaved road still goes toward the pass, following Indian Creek, to a few summer cabins and outlying farms. If you tried to follow it to Morgan's Cleft, you would find yourself in the lane to the Crenshaw farm. If you backed up and tried again, you might find it—if you looked closely. The bushes are not quite as thick, the trees are shorter, the ground is more level and an occasional grading is still visible.
   Some of the older people in Utley still remember those who fled the high valley nearly forty years ago. There weren't many—only a dozen or so—coming down the mountain in wagons and some on foot, scattered over several months. Some were hurt and died quickly from infected wounds. Those who lived moved on hastily without explanation, but the folk beyond the Cleft always were a strange lot.
17
   Hollis Middleton had been to the bank that day discussing a loan. He owned a piece of very choice property that stretched from the highway to Indian Creek just in the edge of Utley. A motel there should do very nicely. But it wouldn't be just another motel. He would build a fishing veranda over the creek; the guests could fish and the motel kitchen would do the cleaning and cooking. He smiled at the idea and turned on the television set.
   He yelled up the stairs for his youngest girl to turn her stereo down so he could hear the TV. He thought he detected a barely perceptible drop in the volume. He adjusted the color so Raymond Burr wouldn't look dipped in purple dye, and sat down to relax.
   He groaned when he heard the dishwasher go on in the kitchen and little silver speckles began dancing across the screen. He bore his affluence with stoicism.
   He heard a scream and a clatter of pots and pans from the kitchen. He arose with a sigh and went out there without too much hurry. His wife was a great screamer. She was rolling on the floor amid several pieces of her new waterless cook-ware. Their four-year-old grandson was wrestling with her.
   Hollis shook his head and laughed. "You two sure do play rough." His grandson looked up quickly at the sound of his voice. The boy had a mouthful of flesh. Blood dribbled off his chin.
PROLOGUE (CONT'D)
   It grew.
   Slowly and carefully, without haste or impetuosity, it grew. It had all the time in the world.

   JEFF DUNTEMANN
   Our Lady of the Endless Sky

   An editor should not exercise his personal prejudices. At least not all of the time. I am about as religious as Alfred Bester and clasp the small kernel of fame for having sold the first SF story with an Atheist as a hero. Therefore I should bounce any story with a trace of religious orientation. But I cannot when the story is as excellent as is this one.
1
   Under a glassy dome made invisible by the lunar night, the Mother of Cod stretched out her arms to embrace the stone horizon. Beyond the tips of her marble fingers rock and steel lay ash-gray under a waxing Earth. Above her peaceful white brow the stars stood guard to all eternity in a sky so deep it had no bottom.
   In front of the native granite pedestal in the nearly finished church, Father Bensmiller knelt and prayed.
   Let them see what I see now, Mother, and they would run to you.
   A faint crunching vibration entered his knees from the dusty floor, newly inlaid with pastel blue tile. Bensmiller looked up. Bright light-flashes off metal dazzled his eyes. The polished aluminum boom of a crane hove into view and wobbled slowly out of sight beyond the wall which supported the transparent dome. They were driving it to the construction site, where a third of the station personnel were planting new machines in the lunar soil.
   Bensmiller went back to his personal miseries at the feet of the statue. Not an hour before Monsignor Carif had spoken to him on the S-band from Houston. As twice in the past, the news was of the rising number of American churches closing their doors permanently. Not due to lack of funds; the Inter-faith Council assured each pastor a living and attempted to keep the buildings standing. It seemed pointless, however, to preach the Gospel to empty pews.
   They have lost their horizons. They can't tell the sky from the concrete.
   Unlimited energy had put synthetic food into even the poorest of mouths on the United Continent. Physical suffering through disease and hunger were becoming rare. Where, then, were the multitudes who should have been giving thanks?
   Earth hovered permanently over Mary's white shoulder.Help them look up, Mother.
   He felt another vibration through the floor. It was slower than before, and wavered in frequency. No crane boom showed itself above the walls. Bensmiller rose from his knees, curious, and climbed the first four steps of a light metal ladder which the electricians had left behind.
   Beyond the reach of the station's huge blue-white night lamps the landscape was shadowy and unreal. Grinding its way down the gravel-paved road outside the dome was a huge ten-wheeled flatbed truck, its bulbous tires flattening under the weight of its large blockish load. More junk for the construction site. Bensmiller wasn't sure what they were building there. The site at the end of the makeshift road was near Cluster A of glittering Garden domes, each dome itself a cluster of warm yellow stars, each star an artificial sun above a section of a Garden. The project had something to do with the generation of power for the Garden complexes. Station Commander Kreski always demanded expansion, new construction, toward the still-distant end of total self-sufficiency for Station Grissom. Every new dome, every new corridor which snaked across the dust of Sinus Iridum came closer to cutting off the ties to the blue planet perpetually in the southern sky.
   Two small beetle-like trucks were following the large flatbed toward the site. Bensmiller shook his head and climbed down the ladder. He dusted the grout from his knees at the bottom. It was more machines. On wheels,on treads, under domes and beneath the lunar soil the machines proliferated. Still, only seven new people had been added to the station staff in four months. The priest wondered why they didn't just send the men home and let the machines spread themselves solidly across the moon's surface.
   Father Thomas Bensmiller picked up his clipboard and continued sketching out his report on the progress of the moon church. The main altar was almost finished. The great slab of genuine maple, the first of its kind in all history to rise above the smoky pall of Earth, would soon bear the reenactment of the Supper. It had been set on its rough-hewn moon-granite pillar, and would be consecrated within the month. The rotator for the two-sided cross had been set discreetly beneath the floor in front of the altar. A lectern of woodlike synthetic stood to the altar's right. Bensmiller mentioned them and made note of his satisfaction with them on the multiple forms.
   Only a little remained unfinished: painting, some electrical work, the pews for the faithful and the large dual cross itself, Corpus on one side and bare gold on the other.
   Bensmiller turned to the statue. Crafted on Earth of Italian marble, it towered more than two meters high on its pedestal of lunar rock The stars shone on her undimmed. He could not look at her and not feel a cool shiver of wonder down his spine.How many kilos of propellant brought you out of Earth's arms to this place, Lady?Kreski kept telling him, over and over, but Bensmiller had made it a point not to remember. Kreski loved to speculate on the riches of the Church spent to build a church on the moon when millions starved in the enslaved East.
   But the poor will always be with you. He had said that, the Christ. And the power of the Church could not always reach past the walls of oppression. God would care for His poor when His ministers were barred from them. Yes. The Lord would care for them. Kreski would nod, and nod, and walk away, still nodding.
   At those times Father Bensmiller felt very small, and false somehow. Kreski was a huge man, brilliant and cold in his understanding of machines and moon-science. Thomas Bensmiller, third son of an Indianapolis housewife, dark and short, mouse-quick and mouse-quiet in all he did, was no match for the station commander and shrank from Kreski's sharp challenges. What was a priest doing on the moon when there was work to be done on Earth? Bensmiller glanced around at the incomplete church, and thought of the machines and thrumming activity further beyond. Man was running for the stars. God's administrators, such as Monsignor Garif, had decided that the Gospel must follow. Thomas Bernberger had been the first to go. Garif assured him he would be the first of many. There were many men like Kreski on the Moon. It would be difficult.
   Give us your strength, Mother. The worst obstacles here are not the rocks and vacuum.
   The Mother of God smiled down at Father Bensmiller, as though to say, That is your problem, my son. HI handle myang\e,you handle yours. Bensmiller had to grin. What afacethat sculptor had given her. She had the face of a card shark.
   Ten aces up each flowing sleeve, and a dozen secrets behind each ace.
   Bensmiller stiffened. The Mother of God had nodded. Then he realized that the floor had shifted sharply under his feet at the same time. It had been a quick twitch, sudden, single, sharp. Moonquakes happened infrequently in that area. Moonquakes, however, were slow, languorous rearrangements of the crust that seldom effected solidly based structures. Explosion! But where was the sound?
   Bensmiller glanced up at the Earth. Man had left sounds behind him. He hurried out of the almost-finished church. On the outside of the thick steel door the words were etched into a copper plate:Our Lady of the Endless Sky.
   Cod have mercy on them,he prayed. The decompression sirens were already beginning their nightmare wail.
   Kreski hovered like a mad vulture over Lock Six. The lock monitor screens showed men galomphing about outside, weird figures swimwalking in the ocean of one-sixth g. The silver hood of a light crane glinted for a moment under the night lamps. It crawled past the unreal gray vista of the screen and was gone. Other men followed, other machines with them. In the strange light the men and machines looked related, first cousins removed by a double layer of fiberglass and jointed stainless steel. Bensmiller's eyes drifted to the painted sign hanging above one of the monitor consoles, reading in black Roman:We are all in this together.He could never quite fathom it, never quite decide what its real portent was. Somehow it seemed to him that the machines were saying it.We are all brothers under the sheet metal.It disgusted him. For the last half of the twentieth century Man had been at war with his machines. Now, in the first half of the twenty-first, he was becoming one of them.
   The oily smell of machines was very plain in his nostrils. Was this the first skirmish in a new war?
   Kreski was punching buttons by the door of the lock. An embarrassed gleep announced the outer door opening. Kreski caught a glimpse of Bensmiller out of the corner of his eye and whipped around.
   "Bensmiller, are you deaf? Go back to your cubbyhole and turn on the air!"
   The priest noticed then that, save for the helmet, Kreski was fully suited. The sirens remained in the background, not quite real. His ears had not popped.
   "But if there are injuries . . ."
   "Damn!" Kreski reddened in anger. "On the moon you're alive or you're dead. I'd sooner you be alive. Mind those sirens, man!"
   Bensmiller, cowed somewhat by the huge man's rage, turned and reentered the main corridor. The lock was cycling double-time emergency, air screaming protest at the furious pumps. The priest tried to shut out the noise.
   Around the corner stood the Reverend Arthur Chamblen, the other half of the Interfaith Council Lunar Mission. Graying, sixtyish. He was a proud man, tall and lean, proud of the fact that he had been certified physically able to withstand the rigors of space travel, proud of the degree in astronomy, which allowed him to work on the small base telescope backing up the four hundred incher seventy kilometers away. Bensmiller, whose contribution to the station was limited to being caretaker of the numerous laboratory animals, envied Chamblen at times. The man spoke confidently about many things. He had a sharp mind and had no qualms about laying criticism where he thought it belonged.
   "He's right about that, you know. Alive or dead. Not much in between." The voice was cold, unmoved. Less the voice of a minister than a physicist. The eyes were much the same, pale blue, ice blue, certain.
   "Then why aren't you locked in your room like a good boy?" Bensmiller was sweating.
   "I was looking for you. When the sirens began, everyone came running. But you."
   "My ears haven't popped."
   "The sirens are for a reason. Let's go."
   With a weird whining snap the inner lock door yielded and hissed into its sheath. Both men stopped. Among the confused noises from Lock Six was the sound of a man in pain.
   Bensmillers' breath left him in a short sigh. He turned and ran back around the corner to the lock. Chamblen said nothing, merely continued to walk, slowly, almost hesitantly, back toward the tiny cubicle to which the sirens called him.
   Three men had been brought in. Dusty anonymous suited figures milled around them, tearing at resistant half-metal suit cloth with fingers and knives and sheet metal shears. Even as Bensmiller was about to reach them several men in clean pressure suits pushed by him pulling two surgical carts. They had the red cross on the white band around their arms. He flattened himself against the wall to let them pass, then continued to press forward.
   Kreski was shrieking orders and shouting into a wireless microphone. Disembodied voices crackled reply from speakers in the walls. Father Bensmiller elbowed his way between two of the dusty-suited men and looked down on the first body.
   It was in several pieces, crusted with melting blood-slush. Bensmiller glanced away, then steeled himself and looked again. The medics were roughly piling the fragments into an opaque bag. The head and shoulders and one arm were still intact, although blackened and the faceplate opaque. Bensmiller was regretfully glad of that.
   Eternal rest grant unto him.. . .
   The other two were at least mostly intact. Both had been brought in inside emergency pressure bags for suit-puncture accidents, and both were still alive. One, his name Monahan, the priest had met briefly at the first Mass held in his little room. Monahan's left leg below the knee was a bloody ruin, his foot nearly sheared off at the ankle. He moaned softly. The other man was not familiar to Bensmiller, and was breathing noisily and spitting up blood. His eyes were closed and he did not move his limbs.
   The speakers began to shout the story for the benefit of the rest of the station."Hydrogen leak in feed tubes to unfinished fusion plant leading to explosion Garden Four destroyed Cardens Two and Three damaged slightly H-culture team injured no atomics involved repeat no atomics involved. . . ."
   That seemed to be what separated a minor disaster from a major one. Whether atomics were involved. Human life didn't seem to enter into it. Bensmiller watched the medics lift Monahan onto one of the carts, bereft of his suit and all but tatters of his blue longjohns. A tourniquet had been crudely twisted around his left leg above the knee. He continued to emit low sounds of pain and occasional muttered obscenities. Blood was everywhere, on the hands of the medics, soaking into the padding of the cart, still oozing from the ruin of his leg. Bensmiller pressed forward, reached out and put his hand on the man's forehead.
   Cod; Father, Son, and Spirit, he was a good man. He came to Mass once. He worked hard. I know him. He worked . . . hard.
   The Sacrament was in his cubicle. Time, time, that was all ... He started making the sign of the cross on Monahan's forehead when Kreski grabbed him by the shoulder and roughly pulled him back.
   "Get that man to surgery. Bensmiller, stand back or I'll club you." The station commander held a heavy sheet-metal shears in one hand. Bensmiller stepped back while the medics pulled the muttering man away.
   Kreski tossed his shears to the floor next to his discarded helmet. He faced the priest, sweat-drops dotting his thin sideburns. "What the hell's the matter with you?"
   The ruddy face was furious, the man still breathing deeply and quickly. It was not an easy face to confront. Bensmiller licked his lips. "I'm a priest. These men are my spiritual responsibility. If they feel depressed, I encourage them. If they feel guilty, I hear their confession. If they're about to die, I give them the last sacraments. That's my job. This is my parish."
   It did not seem the right thing to say at all, somehow, but Bensmiller could not harden before Kreski's sweating fury. Kreski turned away for a moment, wiped some of the grime from his face and turned back, his anger dampened.
   "You want to make mumbo-jumbo over Odner, go ahead. He won't hear you, but it might make you feel better." Kreski pointed with a gloved hand to the other injured man, still lying on a makeshift pallet on the floor. The medics had thrown a sheet over him. Bensmiller, flushed with a sinking bottomless dread, bent down over the body and pulled the sheet back. The face was ashen, the mouth closed. Dried and drying blood discolored the cheeks and neck. The chest held no pulse. "A ten-ton heat exchanger fell on him. Slowly. His insides are smashed to pulp."
   "But..." Bensmiller pulled the sheet farther back. He felt like a ghoul at an opened grave. The body was whole. It had not seemed very damaged, was not twisted or torn out of shape. But where the skin showed through the ripped material of the longjohns, the flesh was purple and black. Crushed. The priest pulled the sheet forward quickly as though to replace it over the head, then paused. He looked up at Kreski. The name was circling like a hawk in his mind. Odner . . . Odner . . . Odner. It did not seem Jewish, nor conspicuously Catholic, nor conspicuously anything. It was only a name and a pain-whitened face attached to a crushed body. "What was he?" Bensmiller asked the commander. .
   Kreski glared at the question. "A human being." He pulled off his large gray gloves and tucked them under his wide pressure suit belt. "That, and a damned good farmer. That's all I know about him."
   The priest dropped his eyes to the corpse. He moistened his thumb and forefinger in his mouth and made the sign of the cross on the gray forehead.
   "I baptize you in the Name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit."Father, find a place for your son Odner. He was a damned good farmer.
2
   "He can't do it."
   Chamblen shifted and looked at the floor. "He can. I'm sorry, Tom, but he can."
   Bensmiller leaned against the railing protecting the statue of the Mother of God, and looked angrily around the church. There were no pews, but the pews were to have come almost last. All of the statues were in place, at that moment unhidden by the discreet curtains which would at the push of a button bring the church into concordance with the Lutheran doctrine on icons. There was the lectern, stern and simple. Only the pews and the large cross still remained in the storage dome, soon to be uncrated and put in their places.
   Mary looked down at the priest and minister, card-shark smile warm and strange.
   "This isn't his. It was paid for out of church pockets. Your church and my church, and a lot of other churches. What about the other ministers who were to come after us when all this was finished? What gives him the right?"
   The Reverend Arthur Chamblen blinked, and made a gesture of obviousness. "Clause 70. That's all he needs."
   Thomas Bensmiller tightened inside, glanced up past Mary's outstretched arms to infinity. He was caught in a corner a third million kilometers deep and as high as the endless sky. He held the directive in his hand.

   TO:                INTERFAITH COUNCIL LUNAR MISSION,
   REVS. CHAMBLEN& BENSMILLER
   FROM:          THE OFFICE OF THE COMMANDER
   OFFICIAL: AS OF NINETEEN MAY 2029 INVOKING CLAUSE 70 REINSTATING GARDEN FOUR INDEFINITELY AT AREA EW9D. REMOVE ALL NONSTRUCTURAL ITEMS IMMEDIATELY.

   "He didn't even give me my own 'Rev.' Nuts.
   Chamblen took the outthrust directive, folded it neatly and tucked it away very calmly in an inside pocket. Bensmiller did not want to catch his eyes. They were, as always, too blue, too level, too at peace with the inevitable.
   Bensmiller felt like fighting. "This was no minor disaster. Men were killed, Why doesn't he take the best interest of this place to heart and send home for another dome."
   Chamblen grinned. "That would cost fifty million dollars out of taxpayers' pockets. It would have to be legislated. Legislation takes time. Months."
   Bensmiller broke away from Chamblen's ever-logical hammerlock, strolled eyes-down toward the lectern. Halfway there he turned back. "So we'll wait. Are we going to die? They fixed the other two. Does one dome out of commission mean instant destruction? I thought they would have designed this place a little better than that."
   Chamblen nodded. "They did. We're not going to die."
   "Then why can't I have my church?" Bensmiller tried to sound as firm and certain as Chamblen, Kreski and all the others always did. But a ghost behind the eyes of the tall minister returned every time to haunt him and knock the sticks out from under his feeble protests. Chamblen always had an answer. Kreski always had an answer. Everyone always had an answer. All but Thomas Bensmiller, who was only a pHest.
   Chamblen leaned back on the railing and brought one hand up, to place a finger lightly against one cheek, as though anticipating an itch should the itch come. "I'm sure you know more or less what goes on in those domes. They grow a certain plant there in intense light on a glut of nutrients. That plant is tailor-made, in a way, to be what I would call hyperthyroid. They grow like crazy, soak up nutrients like crazy and photo-synthesize like crazy. Their rate of C02/02 conversion is unbelievable. They're also fairly tasty." Chamblen grinned. "You know, those army-green 'bugger biscuits.' It's the same stuff."
   The itch came. Chamblen scratched it. The hand returned to the railing. Bensmiller was running the process hazily through his mind, trying to recall the dynamics of a system he was hardly equipped to understand. "There are ten domes. Nine, now. Does ten percent make that much of a difference?"
   "Depends, Tom, depends. We could leave things as they are now and continue on nine domes. It might get a shade stuffier and we might eat a little less. But thenext timea dome goes down we'd all be in bad, bad trouble."
   "This has never happened before." Bensmiller was adamant, and hoped he looked it. "I don't think it will happen again."
   The minister shook his head. "Always count on the unexpected. It can kill you. You know, Tom, I'm not selling out. It's a blow, I know. But we're no worse off than we were before. Honestly, do you know why they built this church here and sent you to staff it?"
   The words came easily. "To allow the Gospel to follow Man as he conquers the universe."
   Chamblen clucked. "Right out of one of Monsignor Garif's pamphlets. I know Garif. He's a shrewd politician. He's the one who pushed like crazy for a church up here, and he pushed you through as Catholic chaplain. You're one of his friends, from way back."
   "Yes, but still. . . ."
   "And that line is pure PR. The truth is, the Catholic Church is fighting a losing battle on Earth, and Garif wants to plant a pocket of orthodoxy here as precedent for future extension of the Church once we branch out beyond the Earth-Moon system. You're as orthodox as they come, and you think highly of Garif. What would you have expected him to do?"
   Bensmiller, for once, allowed himself a smile. "You're being a little cynical for a minister of the Lord."
   "No. I'm adapting to the environment. This is a no-nonsense place, peopled by no-nonsense men. There's no room for the extraneous. After having thought about it quite a bit, I'm still not convinced we need a church up here at all."
   "I'm surprised you don't declare yourself extraneous and jump out an airlock. You do believe in God, I hope."
   "I do." Chamblen nodded. "God to me is a loving Father who once cared very carefully for His newborn sons, but now, the sons having grown out of their cradle, expects them to get along more on their own."
   Bensmiller refused to look at the minister. "I'm sorry we don't see God the same way."
   Chamblen stood up and began to walk toward the door. He had gotten most of the way there when he stopped in the starlight, and tugged on the lapels of his black shirt, which was opened at the collar and dampened deeper black under the arms. "Tom, see it this way. You never wanted to spend the last dime in your penny loafers, did you?"
   Bensmiller ignored him.
   "Well, you're asking Kreski to spend our last dime up here. I'm sorry, I'm terribly sorry, but I'm on his side this time." He walked the rest of the way into shadow and grasped the door handle. "I'll remove our nonstructural items. You take it easy for a while. You've got to cope, Tom."
   The door closed with solemn slowness behind him. Bensmiller and the Mother of God were alone again in the almost-church. He continued to glare at the walls, not wanting to catch her smile again and feel the pain of not knowing what it was he didn't know.
   What is your ace, Mother? Play it, please.
3
   Father Bensmiller stood to the left of the cast-wide doors, watching. He watched the men rip the pastel blue tiles from the floor, their grout barely dry. He watched them hammer ragged craters in the new concrete and draw forth from the ruin snaking cables and twisting tubes, carryingelectricity andwater to feed the strange sorceries he had never found need study. He watched them rip his lectern from the floor, and plant in its place a blinking, multikeyed computer terminal, which drew the same power that would have illuminated the Gospel at some future Celebration.
   He kept nodding to himself. They were efficient. They worked like madmen, around the clock, never pausing. They used every sliver of space in the church. Every square inch under the dome was mapped and assigned to some subtle and necessary purpose.
   It seemed to him that every time he glanced at the door beside him a forklift was rumbling in, heaped with crates and bundles of copper piping and spools of spaghetti wiring. In moments the lift was emptied and gone, only to return in a handful of minutes bearing more trash to be laid at the feet of the Mother of God.
   Who is their Cod, Mary? What force drives them like this?
   Even Kreski was there, his hands in the chaos up to his elbows. Often he paused to give orders, but when there were no more orders to give he was back down on his knees, brazing copper fittings to a pipeline running down what should have been the main aisle. The flame hissed softly, cleanly. Drips of molten lead hit the floor and froze. In that hard face there was a tension, an urgency almost frightening. Kreski was running ahead of something greater than himself, when every impression he had ever given Bensmiller stated in solid surety that nothing on the Moon was greater than he.
   Other men were bolting together skeletal tables of perforated magnesium, upon which were being laid the hydroponic garden units. When the forklift arrived carrying one of the long, narrow, coffinlike black bins sprouting with tiny green newborn shoots, work stopped. Four men lined up along the unit, positioned their hands carefully beneath it and lifted with a machinelike precision. They carried it levelly, slowly, and when they approached, all the other workers stood back. Only when the unit was positioned on its table and firmly bolted down did the welders take up their torches and the electricians their pliers. Row after row of garden units filled the church from front to rear, separated by the pipe-tangled main aisle.
   Men crawled like animals beneath the rat's nest of magnesium beams, pulling plastic tubing and multicolored wires. The clink and scratch and scrape and tap of wire and tube fadedintoa rushed and uneasy whisper filling the dome and echoing past Bensmiller's ears until he wanted to cry out against it. The stink of sweat and ammonium flux made tangible the blasphemy, which otherwise would only come half-clear. He would look outside the dome for solace to the calm sterile wastes, but there the crawling cranes and leaping devils in metal suits were raising the new power lines and settling a new fusion plant into its yesterday-poured foundations. Blasphemy was everywhere. They were forcing him to wallow in it, and he was drowning.
   Along the walls they were hanging the narrow aluminum ducts, through which the air would soon pass, driven by pumps laid beneath the floor. It all went together so quickly, so logically. It seemed as though the men in the dome were merely throwing the beams and ducts together. Everything fit so well, so quickly the first time. There seemed to be no effort to it. And yet Bensmiller could see and smell the grimy sweat streaming from their faces. He saw the concentrating grimaces, the set jawlines.
   This work... asimportant to them. Bless their labors, Mary.
   In time, only one space remained where a garden unit might be placed, and the tubes and wires were everywhere nearby. Bensmiller left hastily, not wanting to see the altar of God plugged into the clucking machines.
   The funeral of Odner and Beckwith was held in Lock One, largest lock and single area large enough for all station personnel to gather. Monahan was there, on a surgical cart plugged into the medical monitors. Soon after, the rocket took Odner back to the arms of Earth, and Beckwith, as his wife requested, was laid beneath the lunar soil Bensmiller watched the coffin vanish beneath the dust through a port, and then fled through the iron hallways of Station Grissom, past the bulletin boards and the graffitti, around the ubiquitous machines, to the only place where he might find shelter.
   They had removed the plaque from the door. Inside was nothing but the continuous mechanical purr of automatic activity; the H-culture team was lingering by the lock. Bensmiller recoiled at the sight of the completed garden, yet deftly slipped between the black coffins full of sprouting vigorous life, working his way toward the now-oddly beckoning arms of the Mother of God. Men live, and men die. The priest mediates between death and life. Life comes from God, and goes back to God. Something in him burned to think of bending that path around and feeding life with death, growth with waste, breath with suffocation. Where could God fit into such a closed circle? He touched one of the brilliant green leaves. He could not understand. If God could not fit, no priest could either, extept by selling himself, to the machines and tending their needs while the circle of life ate its own tail.
   "Blessed Mother evicted by a radish patch. God help us." He wanted to look up at the Virgin, to draw strength from her, but could not.
   Bensmiller bent down and sniffed directly above the carpet of close-planted leaves. The air seemed fresher there. Or was it just a memory?
   Pushing himself away from the garden units, he made his way to where the lectern had been. The computer terminal made a soft thrumming sound as it monitored the pressures and pulses of the machines all around. Bensmiller chuckled bitterly. They have uprooted me and planted a machine in my place, he thought. In this place, with such a congregation, perhaps it was just as well. He laid his hands on either side of the terminal keyboard, tears coming that he refused to fight, and thumbed the love-worn pages of his memory.
   "The Gospel According to St. Luke," he said, looking out at the silent rows of green. "Listen to the word of the Lord, damn you radishes!"
   For two days Father Bensmiller avoided Chamblen and remained alone with his thoughts. The dilemma ran through his mindagainand again while he cleaned the endless rows of rat cages and talked to the sad-eyed dogs waggling at him through the close-mesh screening. He wanted to fight, and place his banner on the side of Life; but cast about as he might, he could not distinguish the lines of battle. Men walked the empty wastes with body-function monitors tattling continually to the machines, and felt safer by it. It was hard for him to believe. The poor dogs were too stupid to comprehend the electrodes taped to their skulls and flanks. They wagged whenever he offered his hand to them. Happiness was just another plate of bugger biscuits. He watched men brag about how sensitive their monitors were, and how completely the machines guarded their welfare. He wondered without praying if men would ever again be able to live without them. Nothing in any of his books gave any hint at an answer, nor even so much as admitted the question.
   Not long after B-shift dinner call on the second day, the buzzer roused Bensmiller from an uneasy sleep. He put his cot in order and shoved the door handle down. Outside the air tight portal was a man in a wheelchair, smiling.
   "Sorry I can't come in, Father," Monahan said. "My wheels won't make it through your door. But I wanted to come over and thank you anyway."
   Bensmiller smiled. His eyes burned a little. "Are you sure you should be up and around like that?"
   Monahan laughed, and lightly thumped the blanket-covered stump that ended just above his left knee. "Takesmorethan a little leg missing to laymelow. People heal pretty quick in one-sixth g. I should be on crutches next week, if I'm lucky."
   The smiling face peering up at him through a castwide airtight door moved him terribly for one long moment. "1 don't know why you should want to thank me."
   "Kreski told me you tried to give me the last sacraments."
   "I see."
   "Takes guts to tangle with that old monkey wrench."
   "He had your best interests in mind."
   "Yeah." Monahan grinned sourly. "He's hell to get along with, but he knows his business. Like I said, thanks. Also because I think you're good luck."
   "Oh?" Bensmiller was startled.
   "Sure. Me and the other guys from H-culture have it figured out. Reverend Chamblen was here for six months before you were, and nobody talked much about a church. But when you get here they start building one right away, and as soon as it's finished, but not finished so that it would be all sacred and everything, that's the time when my Garden blows up. The church was ready and waiting for us to move in."
   "But. . . ." Bensmiller was astonished. The man spoke as though the destruction of a church were a blessing sent by God.
   "Sixty hours, from total destruction to full operation, in a dome that was never designed for life-support machinery. I call that pretty close to a miracle. It'll be something to tell my kids about."
   "But I don't see why. . . ."
   "It wasn't easy," Monahan said, his tone gone more serious. "Take it from me, it was a bitch."
   Amen.
   "No, honestly, Father, me and the guys got to thinking about it, and found you were pretty lucky to us. If they hadn't had a dome, we would have had no emergency margin. Houston wouldn't have liked that. They might have issued a Directive Five."
   Directive Five. Evacuate Immediately. The end of Station Grissom. Bensmiller shook his head in wonderment. "Ineverknew it had been that serious."
   Monahan whistled. "Not anymore, but for a while there it was really touch and go... And if it had turned out to be go, it would really have broken my heart. That trip home would have been a one-way trip for me. One-legged men aren't popular as flight or station crew. So things didn't turn out too bad. Except for you, I guess."
   "Well, I. . . ."
   "You probably feel like a dog that got kicked out of his doghouse so that it could be used as a chicken coop. That must hurt a little, but I figure God forgives more easily than nature. Anyway, it wasn't really fair for you to get shoved out into the cold without someplace to go, so I leaned on Kreski a little bit, and demanded the space in the storage dome where all the spare parts for the new Garden came from. There's quite a hole in there now. So the rest of the H-culture guys got together off-shift, uncrated the crucifix and a couple of pews, and we made you a church."
   "Kreski let you do that." It was a statement of disbelief.
   "We threatened to dye the bugger biscuits purple. They're his favorite food and that's the color he hates the most. We got our way."
   "I have to say thanks. I mean. . . ."
   "No. Just say Mass. For us. We want to give thanks a little. When do I tell them?"
   "Tomorrow morning. 0900."
   "Thanks, Father. You got some real grit, you know that?"
   "No. But I'll take your word for it. Take care of yourself." The door swung closed as the man rolled away.
4
   The Mother of God stretched out her armsto embrace thebarren lands. Over her white shoulder had been thrown a sheaf of electric cables. Glued to her crown was a photoelectric sensor.
   Sunlight, earthgleam. Life must have its light.
   "In the Name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. . . ."
   Between shadow-cast crates and ranks of stacked barrels, seven human beings clustered around a slab of scrap synthetic. Over it had been laid a fine linen cloth. One one side of the cloth was the golden cup. On the other, a small plate of dark green biscuits.
   Mary stretched out her arms. In each hand, fastened with strap-iron, was a cluster of sodium-mercury lights. Other pseudo-suns grew on stalks all around. The dome sang with light.
   I saw a woman, clothed with the sun, and the Moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars.
   Twelve stars. Twelve hundred stars. Twelve thousand stars.
   Twelve trillion stars.
   Mother, they are yours. We will make them yours.
   "Lord have mercy. Christ have mercy. Lord have mercy."
   Seven persons paused, silently, and recalled their faults. Every eight seconds each took a breath. Life was at work there, in their lungs, in their blood, in every cell. Oxygen to carbon dioxide. Energy. Life. God forgive us.
   The machines hummed with their own life. About Mary's shoulders the ducts wound, throbbing their own purpose. Speaking their own language. Molecules of gas wafted over tiny shafts of green. A moment ago, a breath. The breath of a priest, of man, of woman, of Catholic and Protestant and Atheist. The breath of six dogs and three hundred white rats. The last breath of a human being. Someday the first breath of a moonborn infant.
   Life from life, breath from breath. Death is only the intermediary. Mary stretches out her arms to embrace the tiny fields of green, growing in chemical baths under forty artificial suns. Tiny shoots of green taking the bad air apart with sunlit crowbars, giving back their breath, giving up their food. The new air enters the ducts once more.
   The circle is unbroken.
   We are all in this together.
   "This is my body. . . ."
   Mary stretches out her arms to embrace life. All life. Green life, animal life, life that walks on two legs and one leg. She embraces the false life, the buzzing circuits and leaping rockets.
   "Give us this day our daily bread. . . ."
   For these things are necessary. Man lives not by bread alone. He must have his ecosphere.
   "Go, the Mass is ended." Our days are beginning, just beginning.
   Thank you, Mother. Help me understand these things.
   On her head a crown of twelve trillion stars.

   Afterword

   When choosing a title for this series of anthologies of original science fiction I hit uponNovafor all the obvious reasons. In one short word it identified the anthology with science, therefore with science fiction, and also indicated that all of the stories were new. That should be enough of a burden of content for a four-letter word but it has since been pointed out to me that there is another meaning as well. It was during a late night session with Bruce McAllister, who assists me with the annual year's best SF anthology, that the conversation came around to theNovaseries. I mentioned that I greatly enjoyed finding and printing the works of new writers and he said that fitted,Novastanding for new writers as well.
   A nice idea and I checked the record. InNova 1 there was onefirststory, none inNova 2,and two inNova 3.Not much to hang the "nova" label on there—but things are about to change. In a big way.
   This volume ofNovacontains the first stories of no less than six writers. In alphabetical order they are:
   Michael Addobati
   Richard Bireley
   Jeff Duntemann
   Bill Garnett
   Gerard E. Giannattasio
   Tom Reamy
   The interesting thing is that this crop of novaNovastories was not obtained by any deliberate effort on my part. I have a single standard for all stories—they must be good. Nor do I seek any publishing bargains by underpaying newcomers; all income from these anthologies is divided equally among all the writers. The explanation must be found elsewhere and is, I feel, a very simple one.
   Science fiction has become a respected form of literary endeavor. Not respected everywhere of course, an odor of the pulps must still adhere to it in certain places. The New York literary circles,The New YorkerandThe New York Review of Bookscrowd, either ignore it or scorn it as buck-rogerish nonsense. That's their loss. They will discover SF some day, which fact I look forward to with mixed emotions. It is also true that science fiction, when labeled as science fiction, cannot be a best seller or be taken by a major book club as a selection. That too will change, I am sure. In the meantime more and more people are reading this particular kind of literature, SF courses are taught in universities across the country, while an even greater number of science fiction classes are held in high schools. The teachers find it an invaluable teaching tool because students voluntarily read the stuff. The obvious result of this is a complete acceptance of science fiction by young writers as an established part of literary life. An up and coming writer will consider SF as a viable form of fiction and will work in that medium if he thinks he has an idea worth writing.
   With two exceptions the "first" stories published here came over the transom or were found in the slush pile, those none too flattering publishing terms for unsolicited manuscripts. Bill Garnett, who has been writing in other fields for years, had a first science fiction novel that I greatly enjoyed. I wrote and asked him if he had any short stories as well and he sent the one you will find here. Richard Bireley was in my SF course at San Diego State University picking up some credits for his MA. After an entire term of my nit-picking his stories he handed me a manuscript, nostrils flared in anger, and dared me to complain aboutthisone because he had put in everything I had been talking about and had left out all the things I had been complaining over. I read it and gave it back and told him that if I were buying for an anthology at the time I would have bought the story. I thought it a highly marketable piece of fiction and why didn't he send it to Damon Knight who was looking for this kind of material for his series,OrbitDamon Knight bought it. So the Bireley story here is really hissecondsale, but for publishing and inventory reasons it will appear in print here first. Damon has kindly consented to my taking credit for first publication.
   And just to prove something or other, Tom Reamy had two letters of acceptance for his first two story sales that arrived in the mail at the same time. Just by chance mine was the one he opened first. The other one was from—that's right —Damon Knight.
   But Damon is the kind of person who will only chuckle over this kind of thing. Chuckle from on high as he remembers the first story he bought years ago from an underfed comic artist by the name of Harry Harrison
   —Harry Harrison

Взято из Флибусты, http://flibusta.net/b/673409
