
   Dead of Night
   by Lin Carter
   1. Number Thirteen

   Below Fourteenth Street, between Chinatown and the river, extends a disreputable region of cryptic, winding alleys, crumbling tenements, rotting wharves and abandoned warehouses slumping in decay. Here dwell the human dregs of a thousand Eastern ports: Hindus, Japanese, Arabs, Chinamen, Levantines, Turks, Portuguese. Once these dark and sinister side- streets and fetid alleyways were the battlefield of the Tong wars; that was in the days of the legendary detective Steve Harrison, who single-handedly dealt out the white man’s law and the white man’s justice along River Street.
    Those days are long since gone—not that River Street has changed in any noticeable way. Urban renewal has yet to touch the decaying tenements, nor has the law managed to close down the dives and dope dens and honky-tonks. Neither has the furtive, polyglot Asian populace altered, and few could guess what drugs are trafficked in these dark rooms or what crimes of violence and greed are done in those black and garbage-choked alleys—
    Of all these matters, Dona Teresa de Rivera was all too uncomfortably aware, and with every block her taxi carried her deeper into the tangled maze of filthy slums, her discomfiture grew. Only the urgency of her mission goaded her into venturing into this ill-famed corner of the city, far from the quiet residential streets and fine cafes which were her accustomed haunts.
    Fog came drifting in from the riverfront to wind its clammy tendrils about walls of rotting old brick, and to blur the dim luminance of the infrequent street lights.  
    The cab pulled up before the yawning mouth of a black alley off Levant Street, and the gloom that thickly shadowed the narrow, cobbled lane was feebly dispelled by a single light which burned above a doorway only a few steps from the street.
    “That’s it, lady. Number Thirteen China Alley,” announced the driver, cocking his thumb at the dim light. Privately, the cabby wondered what the handsome young Spanish woman could possibly want in this dangerous neighborhood. She had money, that was obvious: No woman wore an expensive frockwith such careless elegance unless she had wealth, breeding and taste.
    “Are you quite certain this is the address?” the girl faltered.
    “Yes, ma’am, Number Thirteen China Alley, between Levant and River Streets. That’ll be six seventy-five.” Dona Teresa gave the driver a ten dollar bill and declined to accept any change.
    “How do I get back from here?”
    He handed her a card. “Call the garage; they’ll send a cab to pick you up.”
    With uneasiness clutching at her heart, the young woman left the cab, which hurriedly drove off, fog swirling in its wake. She entered the dark mouth of the alley, cautiously feeling her way on the greasy cobbles. The light which was her goal burned above the single door of a small, narrow, two-story building, shouldered to either side by larger tenements. The small house would have looked long abandoned, had it not been for that light above the door. Its walls of crumbling brick were black with generations of grime, and the windows peered blindly like cataract-infested eyes, their panes dim and smudged with greasy soot. Dona Teresa shivered and drew her fur wrap more closely about her slim shoulders against the chill, damp air from the river.
    The door, surprisingly, was an imposing slab of solid oak. A small brass plate above the bell read Zamak. Shivering a little, the young woman pressed the bell. She did not have to wait long before it opened noiselessly on well oiled hinges.
   In the doorway was a tall man, lean and rangy, in an immaculate white jacket—a Hindu of some sort, from his swarthy, hawk-like face and spotless turban. Keen dark eyes as sharp as dagger points scrutinized her closely.
    “Pray come in, madame,” said the Hindu with a slight bow. “The sahib is expecting you. Let me take your wrap.”
    Mechanically, Dona Teresa handed him her gloves and fur, staring about the foyer with astonished eyes. Nothing about the locale or outward appearance of the little house could have prepared her for its furnishings. The foyer held an immense bronze Chinese incense burner on a teakwood stand; Tibetan tonkas or scroll-paintings adorned the walls, which were hung with watered silk. Lush Persian carpets were soft and thick underfoot.
    She was ushered into a small study and informed that her host would attend her presently. As the door closed softly behind the tall servant, Dona Teresa looked about, her amazement growing. All her young life she had been raised in luxury, but nothing like this. Furniture of antique workmanship stood here and there, all of carved and polished teak, inlaid with mother of pearl or ivory plaques. The walls were hung with rich brocade and displayed illuminated cabinets crowded with exquisite antiquities—Etruscan, Greek, Roman, Hittite, Egyptian—museum-worthy pieces all. The carpet underfootwas a superb Ispahan of fabulous value, faded with centuries but still glorious. A subtle fragrance hung on the still air, rising in blue and lazy whorls from the grinning jaws of a silver idol of Eastern work.
    Bookshelves held hundreds of scholarly-looking tomes whose gilt titles were in Latin, German, French—Unaussprechlichen Kulten, Litre d’lvon, Cultes des Goules. None of the titles were familiar to her, but they held a sinister connotation of the occult, of the nightside of science and philosophy.
   A carven teakwood desk was drawn up before a fireplace. It held a clutter of books, manuscripts and note pads, weighed down with Egyptian tomb figurines of blue faience, huge scarabs of schist, Babylonian or Sumerian tablets of baked clay inscribed with sharp cuneiform. Above the fireplace hung a grotesque mask of carved and painted wood, scarlet, black, and gold. It depicted a hideous devil face with three glaring eyes and open-fanged jaws from which escaped painted gold whorls of stylized flames. She was staring up at it with fascination mingled with revulsion when a quiet voice spoke from behind her, startling the girl.
    “Tibetan,” said the voice. “It depicts Yama, King of Devils. Some say that he was worshiped in pre-history, in Lemuria, as Yamath, lord of fire.”
    The girl turned swiftly. Her host was tall, slender, saturnine, with a fine-boned visage as sallow as old ivory. His hair was sleek, seal-black, with a dramatic streak of pure silver that began at his right temple and zigzagged to the base of his skull. The dark eyes were hooded and cryptic and thoughtful. His age was indeterminate. He wore a dressing gown of black silk acrawl with writhing gold dragons.
    “I am Anton Zarnak,” he said with a slight smile, “and you are Miss de Rivera. Pray make yourself comfortable.” Zarnak glanced at a side-table laden with crystal decanters. “A sip of brandy, perhaps?”
    “No, thank you,” the girl declined, sinking into a deep chair. Zarnak nodded, seating himself behind his desk. He opened a notebook and selected a pen.
    “How can I assist you?” he inquired.

   2. Night-Fear

   Dona Teresa twisted her hands together.“Doctor, there is nothing the matter with me. It is my uncle, Don Sebastian de Rivera. We are the last survivors of an old California family of Hispanic origin. Ever since my parents died when I was a child, Don Sebastian has been my guardian and my dearest friend. Now he is suffering in the gripof some terrible thing—some hideous curse—I come to you for aid. No one else can help; my uncle forbids it.”
    “Indeed? And what is the problem?”
    Dona Teresa lowered her head, veiling lustrous dark eyes behind thick lashes. “It sounds ridiculous—he is afraid of the dark.”
   When Zarnak made no response, the young woman continued in a rush of words.“He has not always been so! When I was much younger, he owned immense lands in southern California, in Santiago County. He was a gentleman rancher, as our family has always been for many, many generations. He was tall, strong, a veritable lion of a man, afraid neither of God, man or devil.”
    “And now?” Zarnak prompted softly. The girl raised eloquent eyes to his.
    “Now he is an old man, although still in his prime— a shuddering coward who hides from the dark; gaunt, wasted, bent—old before his time. Stooped as if under the burden of some terrible and nameless guilt—”
    “You say that your uncle is afraid of the dark. Can you be more precise?”
    She twisted her hands together nervously. “It was our priest who bade me visit you—Father Xavier of—”
    “I know him well; an excellent man, and a fine priest. Pray continue.”
    “It began about seven years ago. I was scarcely more than a child at the time. You must understand, Doctor: Our family has ranched our ten thousand acres since the days of the first Spaniards. We raise sheep, cattle, grain. My uncle was a veritable bull of a man; I have seen him kill a rattlesnake with his bare hands; once, he slew a grizzly with what you call a Bowie knife. Never in his life did he taste the bitterness of fear; now, he cowers behind shut curtains when night falls, trusting to the blaze of a thousand lights to keep the night away—”
    Zarnak meditated briefly. “Has your uncle consulted a physician? A—psychiatrist?”
    “The family doctor prescribed nostrums, tonics, a vacation. My uncle, Don Sebastian, despises analysts. He considers them little more than witch-doctors.”
    “I am little more than a witch-doctor,” remarked Anton Zarnak with a slight smile. “But please go on; tell me more. Any detail that springs to mind may be of help, offering a clue—”
    “I think that it began when my uncle opened an old Indian burial mound which has stood on our property for more centuries than we have owned the land,” said Dona Teresa. “I believe that it was supposed to have been built by a tribe called the Mutsune, long since extinct,
   at least in California. It was only after this intrusion upon the sanctity of the ancient dead that my uncle began to—change.” Something leapt to life and alertness behind Zarnak’s impassive gaze at this mention of the Mutsune burial mound. He made a brief note on the pad in his small, precise hand.
    “Was anything of interest discovered in the mound?” he asked. The girl shrugged listlessly. “I don’t know—perhaps an anthropologist might find these things of interest or value. It was the tomb, I believe, of some old Mutsune shaman or ghost-doctor or medicine man, whatever you wish to call them. My uncle found clay pots of corn, scattered beads, shellwork, bones. The shaman was well preserved, almost like an Egyptian mummy. The remains, I recall, fell to dust when opened and exposed to the air.”
    “Was anything else found in this tomb?”
    “Jewelry of hammered copper—silver bracelets studded with uncut but polished turquoises—there was an odd pectoral pendant, carved of black volcanic glass—”
    “Obsidian? That is interesting,” commented Zarnak.
    “It was some months after opening the mound that my uncle began to display peculiar tendencies to avoid the dark. Within a year, he abruptly sold all of our land to a rival rancher and brought me here into the east. I had hoped we would relocate to San Francisco, a city that I love; but, no, wemust put the breadth of the entire continent between us and our ancestral home, it seemed. We took a town house on a lovely tree-lined street off Park Avenue, and have lived in seclusion ever since.”
    “While your uncle’s health has declined?”
    “In seven years, he shrank and dwindled into an old man, frail and fearful. It is not a physical thing, I am sure; the family doctor assures me that it is merely nerves. As I have mentioned, he refuses to consult a psychiatrist. Even a priest; I am a good Catholic, I hope. My uncle is indifferent to the Church; he supports it but rarely attends. He has not been to confession in more years than I can remember. Sometimes, I fear for his soul.”
    “Tell me more about his fear of the dark.”
    “It sounds absurd and childish, doesn’t it? But to him the peril is horribly real. In the daylight hours he is normal enough, takes meals with me, talks, even jests. But when twilight nears, Uncle commands the servants to close the drapes over every window, and to light every light. Then he retires to his own quarters. He is armored against the darkness by powerful electric lamps contrived in such a manner that no corner is shadowy. He detests even shadows. And he lives in constant dread of a power failure; every room of the house contains dozens of candelabra and flashlights with freshbatteries. It is a fearful thing to see a grown man cower before night-fears—”
    “How does your uncle pass his time?”
    “In research; he digs through old, moldering books; he writes to scholars all over the world, he is in constant touch with great libraries—to be honest, sir, I have no notion of the nature of his research. We never talk of it—but he is horribly afraid of something —it is almost as if my uncle had somehow incurred the wrath of some demon of the darkness, and clings with frail hands pitifully to the light.”
    Zarnak made a small notation in his careful hand.
    “What became of the relics which your uncle discovered in the Indian burial mound?” he asked quietly.
    “He has them with him. Keeps them in his rooms. He clings to them, seems to cherish them,” said the girl.
    “I see. Is there anything else you can tell me?”
    Dona Teresa thought for a moment. “Perhaps, Doctor, but whether it’s of any value or not—anyway, before Uncle sold the ranch, we had a priest staying with us. He was of pure Indian blood, of a race descended from the Mutsunes. I’ll never forget how violently agitated he became when he discovered that Uncle had disturbed the mound, and brought the artifacts to light—he was transfixed with horror, as if of a sacrilege or the exposure of some dreadful danger.”
    “Was there any one of the artifacts in particular that seemed to alarm him?” inquired Zarnak.
    The girl considered. “Yes; the tablet or pectoral of black obsidian. I remember how he stared at my uncle in frozen shock, and what he said. It was—‘You dared expose this thing to the light of day?’ And then he went into a sort of Indian chant, repeating one name or phrase over and over, swaying to the rhythm of the sound.”
    “Can you recall what the phrase was?”
    The young woman shuddered. “I certainly can! It made a frightful impression on me at the time. Three sounds, repeated over and over —‘Zoo, Chee, Khan … Zoo, Chee, Khan …
    Zarnak made a notation, then rose and pulled a bell cord.
    “I will visit you and your uncle tomorrow morning. It might be better for you not to address me as ‘Doctor’, since Don Sebastian seems adverse to such; while I have a doctorate in psychology, I am not a practicing analyst. Best, however, not to arouse his emotions. Introduce me merely as anantiquarian and amateur collector of antiquities; you may have seen my small collection and it will be no lie. My Rajput servant, Ram Singh, will call you a cab. Good evening.”   
    Once the young woman had left, Zarnak studied his notes with a thoughtful expression on his sallow visage.
    Under the name she had repeated, which he had written down in phonetics, he added a brief notation.
    Zulchequon?

   3. The Black Tablet

   Despite the darkness, for night fell early during these seasons of the year, it was not too late for Zarnak to make a few phone calls. From an anthropologist friend who was an expert in American Indian cultures, he learned that the Mutsune tribe were related to the Zuni Indians, and that their culture was obscure. Little was known of their beliefs, as they were extinct in California, but they were known to have feared a demon whom they called Zu-che-quon; even less was known of this dark demon, but another call to an old friend who was on the staff of the library of Miskatonic University in Massachusetts recommended that Zarnak consult, if at all possible, the Book of Iod for information on this demonic entity. The text itself was fabulously rare; only one copy was known to exist, and it was in the translation by one Johann Negus, from which the translator had rigorously excised many fearful matters of which he deemed it better that mankind remain mercifully unaware.
    A work of such rarity was not in Zarnak’s private collection, although many other obscure and suppressed volumes were. However, Zarnak took down a lengthy manuscript indited by several different hands over many generations, bound in snakeskin. The book consisted of excerpts copied from many little-known texts, and one of these was theBook of lod. The quotations had been copied from the only extant copy of the book, preserved in the locked shelves of the Huntington Library of California, and the copyist had been a man named Denton, whom Zarnak had known many years before. He read:
    The Dark Silent One dwelleth deep beneath the earth on the shore of the Western Ocean. Not one of those potent Old Ones from hidden worlds and other stars is He, for in Earth’s hidden blackness He hath always dwelt. No other name hath He, for He is the ultimate doom and the undying emptiness and Silence of Old Night…
    There was more in this vein; Zarnak read on, skipping quickly, until a passage near the very end of the excerpt arrested his attention with a sudden chill of menace:
    … He bringeth darkness within the day, and blackness within the light; all life, all sound, all movement passeth away at His coming. He cometh sometimes within the eclipse, and although He hath no name, the brown ones know Him as Zyshakon.
    They knew him anciently in elder Mu, and in Xinian under the Earth’s crust, they worshipped Him in strange ways by the ringing of certain small, terrible bells, as Eibon telleth. He feareth nothing more than the light of day, which He abhors, but even artificial light is enough to drive Him down whence He came. He is the Bringer of Darkness, the Hater of Day, and Ubbo-Sathla was His Sire. As a crawling clot of darkness, and as a writhing of clotted shadows shall ye know Him.
    A note in Denton’s hand explained that the last eighty-nine words of this excerpt were deleted from the expurgated copy of the
   Huntington Library, and had been found in a citation by Von Junzt, who had obviously enjoyed access to the uncensored text.
    Zarnak closed the manuscript volume and replaced it on the shelf, brows furrowed in deepest thought.***
   The next morning, Doctor Anton Zarnak travelled by taxi uptown, to the residence of Don Sebastian de Rivera and his niece. The cab drew up before a handsome building on a quiet street lined with old beech trees. When a butler, apparently of Hispanic descent, answered the bell, Zarnak identified himself and was ushered into a sunlit parlor where Dona Teresa awaited him.
    “My uncle will be down to breakfast at any moment,” the girl said. “Surely you will join us?”
    “For coffee only,” Zarnak smiled. “I have already eaten. I prefer my coffee black, with no sugar, please.”
    A pretty Mexican maid named Carmelita served them both. Silver dishes on the sideboard held steaming bacon, sausages, scrambled eggs, toasted muffins. A frosted decanter held freshly squeezed orange juice. The coffee was a superb blend of Columbian beans.
    When Don Sebastian appeared, Zarnak found his host in shocking condition. Despite his relatively youthful age, the man was shrunken, wasted, his gaunt shoulders bowed as if beneath some intolerable weight, his features pasty, prematurely lined with age, the eyes shifty and red-rimmed.
    Don Sebastian accepted without comment the information that Zarnak was an antiquarian, interested in ancient artifacts. During the meal they conversed on American Indian artifacts. Zarnak’s host seemed almost pathetically pleased by his visitor, as if normal human contacts were somehow denied him, except for his niece and the servants.
    After breakfast, Zarnak was shown Don Sebastian’s private collection of rarities. There were some fine examples of Zuni silver, set with polished but uncut turquoises, miniature totem poles from the tribes of the Pacific Northwest, and examples of bead work that would have been the pride of anymuseum. Zarnak innocently mentioned the mound-builders of the southwest, and was, however reluctantly, shown the artifacts he had come uptown to examine.
    For the most part, the artifacts were innocuous: As Dona Teresa had said, they consisted of clay pots of withered corn, pottery shards, beadwork belts, and bracelets. Certain motifs in the beadwork held a sinister connotation for Zarnak, who had been up much of the night consulting reference works on American Indian anthropology. The mummy in the mound had been given to the worship of dark subterranean forces, it became evident.
    The black tablet was not in view. Eventually, Zarnak was forced to inquire of the obsidian pendant, saying (quite truthfully) that he had heard of it as unique and curious. With obvious reluctance, his host displayed the peculiar object.
    It was irregular in shape and the volcanic glass from which it had been carved was oddly heavy in the hand, unnaturally so. Holding the black pendant to the light, Zarnak discovered it hewn with an odd design, resembling a hooded man-shaped figure surrounded by fawning, groveling shadowy shapes, curiously repellent. Strange characters in a tongue unknown to human science ringed the emblem about. The object was unique to Zarnak’s experience, but he recalled to mind another passage from theBook of Iod that might prove of relevance:“Power and peril lurk in those images They brought down from the stars when the Earth was newly formed…”
    Dr. Zarnak engaged his host in conversation as he strolled about examining the superb small collection. While the gaunt, wasted man seemed distraught, even feeble, his speech was coherent and his knowledge of scientific matters extraordinary for an amateur. It was apparent that his intellectual faculties remained unimpaired. And Zamak’s keen knowledge of medicine led him to the conclusion that whatever had so deeply troubled Don Sebastian was of a mental and not of a physical nature. There were no obvious symptoms of disease.
   Zarnak asked for, and received, permission from his host to take a rubbing of the carvings on the black tablet. Later, having returned to his residence at Number Thirteen China Alley, he studied the cryptic characters with bafflement, consulting text after text from his extensive library. The writing was in neither the Tsath-yo language of elder Hyperborea nor the Naacal of primal Mu, nor was it R’lyehian. The faint possibility that it might be in the queer characters of the Aklo tongue led Doctor Zarnak to peruse certain texts of fabulous rarity.
    This study led him eventually to a copy of Otto Dostmann’s book,Remnants of Lost Empires, published in Berlin in 1809 by the Drachenhaus Press. Therein he found the notorious“Aklo Tables” and compared the curious hooked and looped characters to those in the rubbing he had taken from the tablet from the mound: They were the same.
    In translation they read:Keep me from the Light, for Night is my friend and Day my foe, lest Zulchequon consume thee utterly. He then studied those parts of theLivre d’ lvon wherein the Lord of Darkness is described and came to a sudden realization of the extremity of peril in which Don Sebastian de Rivera had lived daily since the excavation of the burial mound of the Mutsune shaman.
    Light—even artificial light—held the Dark One at bay and helpless to visit His wrath on mortals. Only during the hours of darkness could He strike and slay, to avenge Himself upon the disturber of ancient relics never meant to be exposed to the luminance of day. Whatever perversity of greed had caused Don Sebastian to cling to the black obsidian tablet had placed him in perpetual peril all these years;and this was the season of the year in which the overuse of electricity, together with sudden electrical storms, frequently caused power failures—
    Disturbed by these discoveries, which seemed ominous, Zarnak telephoned the town house of Don Sebastian and his niece. Some sort of trouble on the line had rendered their residence temporarily beyond the reach of telephonic communication. Zarnak went to the window and drew aside the heavy drapes:Night had fallen, and the sky was a sullen and sulphurous hue, wherein lightning flickered. The radio warned of sudden and unexpected electrical storms, which might paralyze portions of the city with the brief loss of electrical power to certain areas.
    Zarnak doffed his robe, donned his coat and took up a slender black case that was seldom far from his side by night or by day. He then rang his tall Rajput servant and ordered a taxi.

   4. Thing of Darkness

   The cab seemed to take forever to forge its way through streams of heavy traffic uptown, and all the while the sulphurous sky, turgid with thunderclouds, lowered threateningly, and tongues of lightning flickered in their dark masses. At any moment one such bolt might strike a power line, causing a brief but fatal—fatal to Don Sebastian, that is—cessation of electricity.
    At length the cab pulled up before the imposing facade of the de Rivera residence on that quiet, tree-lined street of Park Avenue, and Zarnak emerged, hastily tossing a bill to the driver. His repeated ringing of the bell eventually elicited a response, in the lissome form of Dona Teresa. Her lustrous eyes widened at the sight of Doctor Zarnak; she opened the door swiftly.
    “Is all well?” he demanded harshly. She nodded mutely, then explained that radio warnings of temporary power blackouts had driven her uncle into a frenzy of fear, and that he had the servants lighting scores of candles in his rooms against the possibility.
    “Take me to your uncle at once, I implore you! I must take the black tablet with me, to neutralize it as best I can—”
    They ascended the stairs and entered the rooms where Don Sebastian lived. Every tabletop held silver candelabra filled with lit tapers, and all electric lights were blazingly alit. The room fairly teemed with luminance, to such an extent that even the shadows in far corners were dispelled. Don Sebastian himself was in a frightful condition, hands shaking, spittle dribbling from the corners of his mouth. He seemed scarcely aware of Zamak’s presence, such was his agitation.
    Carmelita and the other servants departed to seek additional candles in some storage space in the cellar, when Zarnak implored Don Sebastian to let him borrow the obsidian pectoral overnight; so distraught was the older man that he seemed scarcely to hear the words of his guest, and paid them little heed.
    And then it was that it happened.
    Suddenly, the electric lights waned and died. Don Sebastian screeched like a doomed soul and cowered in a corner. Dona Teresa ran to comfort him, while Zarnak sprang to the windows and tore asunder the heavy curtains to peer out. All up and down the street the lights in windows were dying, and the street lights faded into gloom. The threatened power blackout had occurred.
    A great gust of icy, fetid air burst through the parted curtains, curiously sub-arctic in this sweltering temperature.
    The candles blew out, all at once, as if simultaneously extinguished by a giant’s breath!
    Zarnak sprang to his black case and snapped it open. He withdrew therefrom a curious object, like a magician’s wand. The handpiece was a tube of copper with a core of magnetized iron, and the rod was tipped with a curious talisman of gray-green stone, shapen like a five-pointed star. As the light died to densest gloom, a faint halo of greenish luminance flickered and shone about the star-shaped stone.
    In one comer of the room, shadows swirled, clotted, thickened.
    Cold perspiration bedewed Zarnak’s ascetic features. He brandished the star-tipped wand, whose luminance brightened, but when he thrust the wand towards the cloud of gathering shadows, the darkness drank the dim light and failed to disperse. Don Sebastian shrieked!
    Zarnak looked desperately towards the open, undraped window. Fomalhaut leered like a dim eye above the horizon, barely visible through the sulphurous murk. He tried a last resort: la! la! Cthugha!Ph’nglui mglw’nafhCthugha FomalhautN’gha-ghaa nafl thagnIa! Cthugha!
    Three times he recited the uncouth vocables of this strange incantation, and all the while the dark thing thickened and grew ever more substantial in the far corner of the room, until it was veritably palpable.
    Minute sparks of golden fire flickered into being, like a whirling cloud of fireflies. Their luminance did little to lighten the impenetrable gloom, but they warmed the air. There came a rustling as of gigantic, unseen wings—
    Then the lights came on, dazzling, blinding!
    The blackout had been very temporary, blessedly. The whirling cloud of pale golden sparks faded as Zarnak dismissed them. The heavy clot of darkness in the corner shrank; Zarnak advanced upon it, brandishing the star-stone rod. The massed darkness that was Zulchequon faded from view, leaving onlyicy fetid air behind.
    Zarnak composed himself, turned to see Dona Teresa where she knelt in the opposite corner of the room, cradling her uncle’s still form in her arms, weeping. His face was white as milk, features distorted in a hideous grimace of sheer terror. Zarnak crossed the room in swift strides, knelt, examined the wasted form swiftly. No breath, no pulse, no heartbeat; the old man was dead.***
   The police came with an ambulance and a medical examiner. Zarnak took it upon himself to explain, in brief terms, that Don Sebastian had suffered from a neurotic fear of darkness. There were no signs of foul play. The medical examiner diagnosed the cause of death as a massive heart seizure. The police were satisfied. Ambulance workers in long white coats placed the corpse on a stretcher.
    Observing the horrible expression of pure terror graven on the dead man’s features, the doctor murmured, “Looks like I should write up this one as ‘dead of fright.’”
    Zarnak, who stood with his arm around the shaking, sobbing form of Dona Teresa, permitted himself a small, grim jest:
    “No, doctor. I would say ‘dead of night,’ ” he muttered.

Взято из Флибусты, http://flibusta.net/b/667324
