
   The Star Below
   Damon Knight
   I

   Thorinn, son of Goryat, stood in the darkness and listened. Stone hung heavy over his head, leagues of stone and earth, stretching upward black and silent.
   Behind him the sound of the cataract down which he had floated to this place had receded to a dull murmur, and he could hear the gurgle of lesser streams running away somewhere below him. The falling curtains of water were all around Him, ghostly silver and silent, pricked with the jewels of floating droplets. Drifting water-points burst on His lips with tiny cool kisses.
   There were gaps in the falling curtains, tom by the irregular stone above. He put his Head through the widest of these openings, saw other broken slabs, other curtains of water beyond.
   Following the cool air, He made his way among the gray and silver curtains that hung everywhere from the ceiling. Rivulets ran toward Him underfoot among the slabs of stone, and he knew by this that the floor was slanting upward. At length the falling curtains of water grew less numerous, and the sound diminished to a mournful pattering behind him. Ahead, the cavern broke into a tortured complexity of shapes in which he found a narrow passage leading upward. He paused to tip out the water from his wallet and to dry His Hair as well as he could with his hands; then he followed the passage. It coiled away ahead of him, always upward, always rounded, irregular, dry and empty in the glow of his light-box.
   He followed the passage, and at length it widened into a greater darkness. Thorinn stepped out into it cautiously, found himself in a narrow cavern half-choked with a pile of fallen stone. Beyond, in the far wall, he saw a jagged opening.
   He climbed the heap of stones and peered in. Light glimmered back from objects whose forms He could not make out. A breath of air came from the opening, but it was slow and stale. He hesitated a moment, then climbed through the gap in the wall and dropped to the level floor below.
   Silence pressed in upon his ears, a silence more profound even than that of the passage behind him. On every side stood massive objects piled one on another, with slender rods between them. The floor he stood on was perfectly level and as smooth as ice. It was not stone, but some gray, greasy material which seemed faintly warm to the touch. The air was dry and warm. The huge columns stood in rows; their tops disappeared in the darkness.

   Thorinn moved between the columns, touching them curiously as He passed. The rods, of cold metal, were racks on which were piled bundles and bales, and other things for which Thorinn had no words, all covered with some cool, water-smooth substance. He began to realize that He must be in some giant’s storehouse, and he paused, listening; but the silence was unbroken.
   He slid his hands curiously around one of the bundles. It was so smooth and heavy that it was hard to find any purchase on it, but he dragged it out at last and lowered it to the floor. It was almost as broad as his arms could span, vaguely oblong but with all its comers rounded, like a huge gray cheese. He looked in vain for any seam or opening; the smooth surface was unbroken.
   Next he tried to cut it with his sword. At the first touch, the covering opened like a mouth. Thorinn put his fingers under the edges, marveling at the thinness and transparency of the stuff, finer than the skin of an onion. He pulled, and the tear lengthened easily. The covering split and tore without resistance, and he peeled it off in great rustling sheets. Underneath was a gray soft substance like bread dough; he could push it in, but the hollow filled out again at once, nor could he tear it with his fingers.
   Again he used the sword. The gray stuff cut readily, but would not tear like the other. When he pried at the gash he had made, sticky-looking fibers at the bottom clung stubbornly together. He slashed it deeper, and at last it gave way, opening in a slit as the transparent stuff had done, and he saw something else beneath it: a gleam of russet and gold.
   He tore away the gray substance in lumps, threw them aside. In the glow of his light-box a bundle of cloth lay revealed, and he caught his breath. Rich and soft beyond belief it was, russet and gold and scarlet in shimmering patterns that were not printed on the fabric but woven into it. He unfolded and unwrapped the cloth, spreading it out on the floor as he went; it covered the whole width of the aisle, and still there was more. Thorinn dropped it and stared at it in helpless wonder. Such a piece of stuff was beyond price; he could ask what he liked for it. This one bale had made Him rich. And what was in all the others?
   He attacked a second bundle, found it contained another cloth like the first, colored in deep purple, royal blue, peacock green. In a fury of impatience, he ran to the next aisle, found a rack of smaller bundles, some of which, no bigger than his Head, Bad fallen to the floor. He chose one, slashed it open. Inside was a glittering device of brass and ebony, beautifully made, though he could not imagine its use.
   The next was a pretty jug with a handle and a spout to pour from. He tilted it to see why it was so heavy, but only a single drop of moisture came out.
   The next was a black-and-red-patterned box in which, nested in purple velvet, lay dozens of tiny bright figurines of men and ladies.
   Stunned with joy, He ran to the next aisle and found other outlandish engines; the next: Yen-metal knives smaller than his finger, with tiny blades sharper than his sword; the next: Hammers, wedges, no bigger than the knives, and other tiny tools whose use he could not guess.
   The fever to open more and yet mare bundles made him forget weariness, cold, thirst and hunger. He found clothing— wide-skirted robes, heavy with brocade; tunics and breeks of gossamer stuff; shoes, marvelously thin and supple. He found more engines, some with parts that turned, some that did not move at all. He found rings, bracelets, ropes of jewels that spilled in a flood across the floor. Riches piled up around him, and still he was aware that he Had barely begun to loot this incredible treasurehouse.

   Once he paused long enough to gather all his trove into one place and, sorting through it, to try to decide what he would take with him, for it was obvious that he could not carry even a tenth of what he had uncovered so far. Then the blank gray faces of the unopened parcels drove him to frenzy again, and against all common sense he attacked bundles larger than any He had yet opened, gray oblongs taller than he was, ripping open their fronts without removing them from the racks, merely to see what was inside them. (Cabinets of polished wood inlaid with nacre. More engines. Chairs with arms curved like serpents. More bales of cloth, ten times larger than the others.)
   Then for weariness alone he forebore awhile and sat with his head on his heavy arms. Hunger and thirst returned. He tipped up his wallet and drank what little water was in it, but it was not enough. He began to think of finding some container and going back through the caverns for water. The wallet would do, but he wanted to keep that dry to hold his treasures. He could put some of the smallest things in it, the jewels perhaps, and for the rest make a bundle to carry on his back. But before that he must sleep, and before sleep he must have water to quench his thirst. So he turned the problem back and forth, a little thick-headed in his weariness, and came to the same conclusion ten times over, but did nothing because it was so much pleasanter not to move.
   Then he remembered the jug, and opening his eyes, which he had closed in order to think better, He saw it at the edge of the pile he had made on the floor.
   He got up wearily, thinking of the long way back through the tunnels. When he took up the little jug, it seemed to him that it was heavier than before. He shook it, and it gurgled. Without thinking, he tipped it over. Water splashed on his feet.
   Thorinn righted the jug and stared at it. He shook it again, and it still gurgled. He put the spout cautiously to his lips, tilted it up, tasted. It was water, cold and pure. He put his head back and drank in great gulps until the jug was empty.
   To make sure, he held it upside down. A single drop fell, then another, then no more. He set the jug down, sat by it and watched it awhile, but nothing happened. He picked it up, turned it over: water ran out, a thin stream that stopped almost at once. But how could there be any, when the jug had been dry a few moments since?

   He put the jug down again and set himself to watch it, resolved to wait longer this time so that there could be no mistake. But he grew impatient and, telling himself that the jug would do well enough by itself, he turned his back on it and opened another bundle. This contained an engine of some sort— a gray box with rounded edges, one thicker than the others. It had no lid; it was open but not quite empty. The bottom of the box was filled with a smooth bulge of glass or crystal. It was well made, but not especially beautiful, and he had engines enough already. Perhaps it was time to go and look at the jug? No, he had left it alone longer the first time. He picked up his light-box and walked down an aisle he had not yet explored. There were many small bundles here. He took one at random and opened it. Inside the nest of gray dough-stuff there were dozens of little boxes with bright markings on them, green, violet, yellow, red. He found the trick of opening them — you put your thumbnail under one edge of the lid, and the box sprang apart. Inside was an oblong piece of some cheesy substance. Thorinn sniffed it, then tore off a crumb and tasted it. It was cheese — bland, with anunfamiliar flavor, but undeniably cheese. He ate the whole piece in two bites, then opened another box, and another, and ate until his belly was full. Weariness forgotten, he carried the rest of the boxes back to his treasure heap.
   He picked up the little jug; it gurgled. He could not see inside it very well, but it seemed to be at least half full. He drank deeply, set the jug down. The water still remaining made a pleasant splash.
   He sat down with his back against one of the bales of cloth. The box-shaped engine lay nearby on the floor. Thorinn lazily reached for it with one foot and hooked it nearer. It slid, checked on some irregularity in the floor, then tipped forward on its heavy edge and stood upright. Inside, the crystal seemed to flicker with colored light for an instant.
   “Here, that’s odd,” said Thorinn, sitting up.
   The box flickered again, and a voice spoke.

   Thorinn was on his feet without knowing how he had got there. His sword was in his hand. He whirled, looked wildly this way and that, then circled the heap of treasure and peered behind the columns, looked down the aisles. He listened, heard nothing but the pounding of his own heart.
   He went back to the box and stared at it dubiously.“Was that you?” he demanded.
   The voice spoke again, incomprehensibly. It was a man’s deep voice, calm and measured; but where was it coming from?
   “Are you in there?” Thorinn asked, stopping to peer into the box. The voice replied. The dark crystal lighted up. Thorinn saw a confused pattern of light and shadow; then part of it moved, and he saw a tiny crouched figure, dressed in stained leather, with a sword in its hand. When he moved, itmoved.
   “Is that me?” he cried.
   The voice said,“That me?”
   Thorinn looked at the box with deep distrust, withdrew a little and sat down facing it. The crystal Had gone dark; now it lighted up again, and he was looking as if down a long tunnel at the same figure, with a column of stacked bundles behind it. It was like looking at oneself in a mirror. Yet when he raised his sword in his right hand, the figure raised its sword in its right hand, not its left, as in a proper mirror.
   “You,” said the voice.
   “Yes, it’s me,” Thorinn replied. “How do you do that?”
   The crystal went dark.“How do me do that?” said the voice.
   “Yes, how do you do?” asked Thorinn impatiently. “What’s the matter? Why do you talk that way?”
   “Why do me talk that way?” Thorinn felt baffled, “Yes, why do you talk that way?”
   The crystal lighted again.“You talk.”
   “Well, of course I talk. I talk much better than you.”
   In the crystal, the tiny figure seemed to rush forward without moving until its face filled the box. Thorinn fell silent, but in the box he saw his own lips moving.“You talk?” asked the voice. The face rushed forward again, and now he saw only the mouth and chin. “You talk?”

   Convinced now that He had to deal with an outlander or witling, Thorinn said,“Yes, I talk,” and gesturing toward his own mouth, he spoke with exaggerated clarity, opening his mouth wide with each word. “I — talk. Talk. You understand?”
   “Talk,” said the voice. “I understand.” The crystal darkened, lighted again, and Thorinn saw a hand. It was his own hand, but when he moved his hand, the hand in the box did not move. “That’s my Hand,” he said.
   “I said so didn’t I?”
   “You said so. Talk.” In the crystal, now he saw only one finger; the rest of the hand had turned all misty.
   “That’s my finger.”
   “That’s your finger. Talk.” Now he saw his thumb, and he told the voice what that was called— and then his arm, his leg, his foot, his toes, his head, his ears, his eyes and so on until he lost patience and stood up. “You ask too many questions,” he said.
   “You ask.”
   “All right, who are you? How did you get in that box?”
   “Box?”
   “Yes, box.” Thorinn squatted, touched the box. “This thing. This box. How did you get in?”
   The crystal lighted, and he was looking at the box. A box inside the box. The box was not lighted, and it stood on a yellow surface.“This box,” said the voice.
   “Yes, the box. How did you get inside it?”
   “I are this box. Talk.” The crystal glowed, and Thorinn saw a man in stiff scarlet robes, with a shimmer of green and gold behind him. “That’s a man. He must be rich.”
   The man disappeared, and he saw a woman with fair hair, dressed in similar robes.“That’s a woman. Is it his wife?”
   So they went on, and Thorinn told the box what a boy was called, a girl, a tree, a leaf, a branch; but sometimes the box showed him engines or other shapes he had never seen before, and he would say,“What’s that?” or “I don’t know what that is.” At last his head began to droop, and the pictures in the box grew so blurred that he could not make them out at all. “Talk,” said the box. His head came up with a painful jerk, and he realized that he had been asleep for just an instant.
   “No more talk,” fie said thickly. “Good night.” The box said nothing. Thorinn, too dizzy to get up, rolled onto a pile of folded cloth, pulled an edge of it over him for a blanket and was instantly asleep.

    [Картинка: _1.jpg] 

   II

    [Картинка: _2.jpg] 

   When he awoke, he had forgotten all that had happened and at first did not know where he was. Then joy filled him when he saw his treasures. He pottered about among them for a while, examining this and that, drank from the magical jug, then crawled through the hole in the wall to relieve himself outside, came back, opened one of the boxes of cheese for His breakfast and began to plan what he should do next.
   He would take only a few of the choicest things, and a supply of food, for his intention now was to try to come up into the Midworld as near as possible to the Highlands and to walk the rest of the distance, carrying his pack. Once there, he would sell some of his treasures to buy land and horses; later, he would come back to the cavern, taking care he was not followed; he would bring a pack train, and this time carry home enough treasure to keep him for the rest of his life. Thinking of this, he began to worry about brigands and to think that he would certainly have to be accompanied by some armed men. They would have to be trusted men, so that they would not rob him themselves; yet, even so, he would have to conceal from them the place where he went underground, so that they should net follow him. These thoughts gave him a headache and made Kim feel out of sorts, and he concluded that it was not easy to be rich.
   The box had said nothing since he awakened, and he was glad of that for it had tired him with its chatter the day before. It was a clever box in its way, for it pronounced everything perfectly and never had to be told anything more than once, but in other ways it was very stupid and seemed never to have heard of the commonest things.
   He had another drink from the jug and set off straight down the aisle, meaning to follow it to the end. The tall columns marched past him with their heads buried in the darkness. There was no sound but his own footsteps. Here and there small parcels had been knocked to the floor, and he conjectured that an earth-shock must have done that; probably that was the cause, too, of the gap in the wall through which he had entered. Before that, the cavern must have been sealed up… for how long?
   He stopped, listened. The quality of the silence in the cavern was the same, a feeling of vast space. When he scraped his foot on the floor, no sharp echo came back from ahead, where the wall of the cavern ought to be. When he had gone another hundred paces, he stopped again, and it was just the same. He had supposed this must be a small cavern, like those outside; but what if it were huge?
   The thought of so much treasure, endless, uncountable rows of it, oppressed him instead of raising his spirits. After a moment he turned and started back.

   In no time at all, it seemed, he was back at his heap of treasure.
   “Box,” he said.
   There was no answer, and the box did not light up.
   Alarmed, he took a step nearer.“Box, are you there?”
   “I am here,” said the box.
   “Well, why didn’t you answer before?”
   “You did not ask.”
   “Oh.” Thorinn thought about this a moment. “Well, how big is this cave?”
   “What is this cave?”
   “This cave,” Thorinn said, waving his arms. “This place here, where we are.”
   “What is how big?”
   “How big,” Thorinn said, waving his arms again by way of explanation. “How many ells?”
   “What are ells?”
   Thorinn sat down on the floor and stared at the box in exasperation.“Ells are — well, anybody knows that. Ells are how long something is.” He spread his hands apart. “This is an ell.”
   The box said,“How long are you?”
   “You mean how tall. Two ells. I’m two ells tall.”
   In the crystal, two yellow marks appeared.“How many?”
   “Two.”
   One of the marks vanished.“How many?”
   “One.”
   Two more appeared.“How many?”
   “Three.”
   The box, Thorinn realized, did not even know how to count. So they went on until they got to twenty-one, and then the box said,“Two tens are twenty?”
   “Yes, that’s right, and three tens are thirty.”
   “And four tens?”
   “Four tens are forty. Five tens are fifty, six tens are sixty.” At a hundred and ten, the box stopped him again.
   “Ten tens are a hundred?”
   “Yes.”
   “This cave is eight hundred fifty ells long, fifteen ells tall.” In the crystal, a brightly lighted little hollow shape appeared. It was like a very long, narrow box. At “eight hundred fifty ells long,” a yellow line appeared from one end to the other. At “fifteen ells tall,” a short yellow line appeared, standing erect, crosswise to the other. Then a third line appeared, across the width of the box. “Three hundred nineteen ells.”
   “Three hundred nineteen ells wide?”
   “Yes, three hundred nineteen ells wide.”
   “And eight hundred ells long?”
   “Eight hundred fifty ells long.”
   Thorn was silent in amazement.“Is it all full of things?”
   “What is full?”
   “I mean is part of it empty, or is it all full of stacks of things like this?”
   “It is all full of stacks of things.”
   Thorn tried to imagine it and could not. Where could such an incredible accumulation of treasures have come from?
   “Who made this cave?” he asked.
   “What is made?”

   Thorn tried to explain and grew hot-faced from exasperation.“Well, look here,” he said finally and picked up his light-box. “I made this box. I cut these pieces of wood and glued them together, and I fitted the pieces of mica in here at the ends — well, one of them is gone now, I lost it in the river. Then I made the lid and put it on here, and thenthe box was made, you see. I made it.”
   In the crystal, an image of Thorn appeared, fitting little pieces of wood together. It was ever in a moment, and the figure held a light-box in its hand.
   “You made this box?”
   “That’s right. Now who made all this? Who made you?”
   “A box made me.”
   “You mean you made yourself?”
   “I mean I made me?”
   “Well, did you?”
   “A box made this box.” In the crystal appeared a huge black engine, out of the end of which, one after another, were dropping little gray boxes, each with’ a glint of crystal inside it. They floated away out of sight; it made Thorn dizzy to watch them.
   “You mean an engine. An engine made you — and all these other things?”
   “Engines made me and all these other things.”
   “Well, but who made the engines?”
   “Engines made the engines.”
   Thorn gave it up. He made the box show him the picture of the cave again, then what was around it. In the new picture, the cave was a tiny bright shape at the center, while all around it other transparent passages ran off in every direction, some twisting, some straight. His idea had been to find out the best way back to the MacWorld, but as he asked the box to show him more and still more, he grew fascinated by the maze of passages, caverns and shafts crisscrossing each other; there seemed to be no end to it. New lines kept floating into the picture, while the old ones grew smaller and closer together.“How did it ever come to be like that?” he asked. “The whole world?”
   In the crystal, the network of lines vanished and a man’s face appeared, brown and smiling; at least Thorn supposed he was a man, though’ he was beardless. His black hair was cut short and combed back, exposing his ears and forehead. His lips moved. After a moment the box said, “This is the world.” Behind the brownfaced man a big green and bluemottled ball was floating, against a background of darkness. The man’s lips went on moving, but no sound came. The ball receded, grew very small.
   “What is he saying?” Thorinn asked. “Let me hear what he says.”

   Now the man himself began speaking, but it was gibberish; Thorinn could not understand a word. The ball was tiny now, and to one side of it, over the man’s head, a dot of yellow light appeared. It grew slowly; suddenly it was very big and bright, and Thorinn could see flames leaping from its surface.
   Then it all vanished, and instead he was looking at a green landscape dotted with men and women who were all standing looking up at something huge and flat and silvery that was receding slowly overhead, as if somehow they had brought the sky down and now were raising it again. The man’s voice was still speaking, but Thorinn could not see where he was. Now the sky was high overhead where it belonged, and little dark engines were moving across it.
   Then it changed again, and they were underground, watching a huge engine that ate its way into the solid rock, leaving a bright round tunnel behind it. Then there were scenes of great caverns full of engines and people, and floating egg-shaped things that crossed the caverns and darted along tunnels, up and down shafts, all brightly lit, shining. Then the brown man again, and behind him a picture like the drawing of the Underworld the box had shown him before, only it was circular, with many rings one inside the other and four straight lines radiating from the smallest circle of all, in the center. Then the circle changed into a ball again; this time it was white. Watching these pictures made Thorinn uneasy in a way he could not understand; it was like being afraid, and because there was nothing to be afraid of, this made him angry. The brown man was still speaking; the yellow point of light had appeared, and the silvery ball, itself shrunken to a dot, was crawling away from it toward a cloud of other bright dots. Now the other dots swung, came closer, darting forward like frost-flakes in a storm until only one hung in the center of the crystal, growing larger and brighter.
   “That’s enough,” Thorinn said. The crystal went dark.
   “I haven’t all day to sit watching such stuff,” he said. “It’s all nonsense anyhow,” and he began turning over his heap of treasures, trying to decide what to take and what to leave behind.

   III

   The magic jug was a problem. He thought of hanging it from his belt, but that would be awkward; and unless he could contrive some sort of lid for it, the jug would be spilling water down his leg. Whereas if he put it in his wallet, it would take up too much’ room. He could fill the jug with jewels, but then would the water run over?
   He remembered that when he had first taken the jug from its wrapping, there had been no water in it or, at any rate, only a drop. Was it being wrapped up that made the difference? It was worth trying, anyhow. He cut a piece of the transparent stuff, wrapped it around the jug after pouring the water out and tied it tightly with strips of the same material. Later, when he came back from a trip to gather food, he opened it, and it was still almost dry. He filled it to the brim with jewels, wrapped it again and put it in his wallet.
   The smallest piece of cloth he had was far too bulky to carry, but he cut off a strip half an ell wide and as long as he was tall. He spread this on the floor and rolled up his cheeseboxes and other things in it— clothing shoes, the little figurines, tools and knives, the box, some leftover jewels — turning the ends in as he went. He did this twice over before he had the roll packed to his liking, with the heavier things in the middle, the food outside where it could be easily reached. He tied it withstrips of cloth and with other strips contrived loops which would fit over his shoulders.
   The box had said nothing while he was packing it, nor Had he spoken to it. Thorinn felt a little hangdog about this, as if He had been lacking in politeness; but he reminded himself that the box was only an engine, and it probably did not care.
   At any rate, the box had said that the cave was eight hundred fifty ells long and three hundred nineteen ells wide; and in the picture it had shown him, there had been a tiny shaft through its roof to a tunnel above. It was near one end of the cavern as regards length and in the middle as regards width. If he could find it without wasting too much time in the search, it would be the quickest and best way out of the cavern, and Thorinn thought he knew how it could be done.
   He set off down the aisle, counting his paces, and when he had gone a hundred and fifty ells, He turned to his right and began counting again. When He had gone six hundred ells, a gray wall loomed up ahead; he had reached the end of the cavern. He swung himself up onto the nearest rack and began to climb it.
   The bottoms of the stacks disappeared; he was climbing in the fitful glow of his light-box with darkness all around. In the silence, the rack with its gray bundles seemed to glide downward past his body, as if he were not climbing at all, but hanging in midair and pulling down more and more of the rack like an endless serpent. In a few moments he saw a dim gray reflection overhead. It was the ceiling, and when he stood on top of the stack a moment later he could reach up and touch it with his hands. He could see the tops of other stacks to left and right, gray hummocks rising out of the darkness, but there was no sign of any opening in the roof of the cave.
   He turned away from the cavern wall, leaped to the next stack, then to the next, examining the ceiling from each. When he had traversed ten stacks in this way, he leaped the aisle to the next row and began working back along it, meaning to trace a path around and around the original ten stacks, like a man winding string on a twig, until he found the opening; but he had hardly begun his second cast when it appeared, off to his left: a round black hole in the ceiling.

   The shaft was circular and three spans wide. Standing under it and stretching up his arm with the light-box, he thought he could make out a brownish something that might be a shield closing it at the top.
   Standing on his toes, he could just get his hands onto the smooth walls of the shaft; but that was no matter. He planted himself directly under the opening, bent his knees, leaped. As he shot up into the opening, he put out his arms and knees, braced himself, came to rest. A thrust and a wriggle, and he was half an ell farther up; now he could support himself with hands and feet on one side, back against the other. Hampered a little by the bundle across his shoulders, he still was able to climb rapidly enough. In a few moments his head was touching the brown hollow disk that closed the shaft. He touched it, and it swung aside; a black cusp widened to a circle. He was up, through it into darkness that turned suddenly to a flicker of pale light.
   As those vast arching shapes exploded around him in a kind of silent sizzling, Thorinn flattened Himself to the floor. The cold shield was under his hand; he slapped it frantically, felt it swing, felt the cool upward breath, then the shaft walls were burning his hands and knees as he braked his fall; the shield swung over his head, and the light was gone.
   With pounding heart, Thorinn hung in the shaft and stared upward. There was no sound. He tried to remember what he had seen: vast arcs of light that swooped up flickering into the darkness… What could it have been? He was ready to let go and drop instantly, if the shield should begin to turn; but nothing happened. At last he nerved himself to climb the shaft again.
   He put his hand on the shield, turned it carefully. A lozenge of darkness appeared; there was no sound, no scent of danger. Thorinn widened the opening until it was black and round above him. The lights, whatever they were, were gone completely. With painstaking caution he thrust his head up; then, bracing himself to hold the shield open, raised his arm with the light-box. Darkness. He raised himself a little, head and shoulders through the opening; and a sudden flicker burst almost under his chin, ran away swooping and shimmering upward in multiple arcs…
   When he ducked his head down, the flickering died; darkness returned. After a moment he raised himself again. The lights sprang up, flickering, swooping far overhead. They steadied, burned clear and cold. Thorinn raised himself a little more, cautiously, then still more, and finally climbed out.

   IV

   He was standing at the bottom of a vast tunnel whose walls curved up to become the ceiling an incredible distance overhead. The lines of light ringed it; the nearest, only an ell away, was a white ribbon that curved up, up, growing thinner until it was no more than a bright thread above. On either side of it were others, set three ells apart. In one direction they were dazzling bright, in the other much dimmer and more diffuse; he counted twenty of each. The reason for the difference, he saw now, was that the rings were lighted only on one side, so that in one direction he saw not the lights themselves but their reflections in the tunnel wall. As he looked down the tunnel, the farthest ones were perfect upright circles, but those nearer to him grew fatter at the bottom until they were vast egg-shapes that leaned together overhead.
   He was trembling; why had the box not made him understand how huge these tunnels were? He felt himself tiny and exposed; the distant rings were like giants’ eyes staring. He glanced for comfort at the closed shield in the floor, then leaned to examine the nearest ring more closely. The floor was of some smooth, hard substance; embedded in it, the ring stood up two spans high, hollow on the bright side, flat on the other, with a flat dark edge the breadth of his hand. He touched the dark surface cautiously, then the bright; one was as cool as the other.
   He hopped over it and took a stride toward the next ring. Far down at the black end of the tunnel, there was a flicker: a new ring inside the others. Thorinn stared at it; something was wrong. He turned, counting the bright rings, and there were still twenty.
   He began to walk in long floating strides down the middle of the tunnel. Each time fie soared over one of the rings, a new one appeared ahead; the eye of blackness at the end of the tunnel remained always the same, He thought of the pictures in the box and of the egg-shaped things that darted along the tunnels, up and down the giant shafts. And the lights followed them wherever they went, so that where they were, there was light; and when they had passed, the tunnel waited in darkness…
   He began to move faster, then to run, in order to see the bright rings run on ahead. A kind of exhilaration took him, and fie ran faster and faster, as if he could catch the fleeing rings of light. The tunnel slipped by him in sepulchral silence, and again fie began to feel that fie was not moving at all, but posturing motionless in the air while the illusory tunnel flowed past him, out of one nothingness into another.
   Without warning, the black eye at the end of the tunnel flared bright. Thorinn stumbled to a halt, arms flailing. What had been a black disk an instant ago was now a globe of light, striped with faint dark lines as if it were a spinning top, and for a moment the illusion was so strong that fie almost turned to flee, certain that the monstrous globe, which filled the tunnel, was whirling down upon him. Then fie saw that it was not bulging, but hollow; He was looking through the end of the tunnel into some vast lighted space beyond.

   As he approached, the last ring of the tunnel grew enormous around him, and he saw that the space beyond was a great shaft, striped with horizontal rings of light. Where the tunnel met the shaft, it flared out smoothly above and below; the floor dropped away with deceptive gentleness, like water pouring over the lip of a chasm, and the light-rings became ovals instead of circles. Using them as a ladder, Thorinn found that he could venture down the slope; and now he saw his way upward. To either side, the upright rings gave way to the horizontal rings of the shaft. He had only to descend to the lowest ring in the flared mouth of the tunnel, then step onto the nearest horizontal ring and begin to climb.
   The dark upper surface of the ring was flat and level and two spans wide; he was able to walk on it with ease, knowing that if he stumbled he could reach up to catch himself against the lighted surface of the ring above. He was aware of the gulf beside him, but tried not to think of it Above, the shaft was lighted for sixty ells, then vanished into darkness. Below—
   Some perversity made him want to see down into the depths of the shaft, even though it meant that he had to lean outward, bracing his hands against the overhanging lip of the ring above.
   It was the same below, or almost the same— twenty rings of soft light merging into one another, then blackness. But in that blackness, close to the edge on which he stood, burned a fierce blue-white point of light. It was tiny and unwinking; he could not tell how far away it was, but he thought it must be very deep, or he would have been able to see it before.
   He gazed downward awhile without moving, then straightened. He was dizzy, and he shook his head to clear it. The sight of that tiny brilliant dot had affected him profoundly, in a way he could not understand.
   The brown man speaking his gibberish, and the tiny dots of light that moved…
   He could not think, standing here on the narrow ledge. After a moment he turned back to the mouth of the tunnel and climbed the rings again until the wall began sloping back steeply, and he could sit down without taking off his pack and lean his back against it, with his legs dangling over the gulf.
   Whatever he did, he must rest, eat and drink. He opened his wallet and took out a box of cheese. He unwrapped the magic jug and set it beside Him, without troubling to empty out the jewels. After a little he tipped it to his mouth and found, as he had hoped, that there was water in it, enough to satisfy his thirst. When he had finished, he wrapped it up again.
   The question was what was he going to tell people when he got back? Nothing had turned out as he expected. The earth had not grown colder as fie descended; here in the shaft it was only as cool as a spring morning in Hovenskar. As for demons and giants, he had met none of them. How could it have come about that the Underworld was so different from what people believed?
   It seemed to Thorinn that the vast emptiness was speaking to him, trying to convey some meaning which he could not quite grasp. He had touched it again and again, in the treasurehouse, in the caverns, in the dark tunnels and passageways, and each time it had slipped away from him.
   He began to grow angry with Himself, for of course the only thing to do was to go straight up the shaft to the Midworld.
   He put the jug back in his wallet, climbed down and worked his way out on the horizontal ring again. He leaned out once more to look at that tiny, brilliant point of light; and it was still there, unmoving.

   There had been a word that the brown man spoke, over and over, when he was talking of the bright dots that moved in darkness: star.
   Could that be a“star,” down there, in the depths of the Underworld? Perhaps if he knew what a star was, he would know what the brown man had been trying to say about the world; perhaps he would even learn why it was that all these great works, made by man, were now empty of man.
   And now some demon began to whisper to him that it could not be so very far to the bottom of the shaft, that he could soon climb down and see the star, then climb back, with no harm done; and although he knew this was perverse and foolish, he could not resist it.
   After all, what had he ever gained by caution? And how could he go back to the Midworld knowing that he had had the chance to see such a marvel and had refused it?
   When he knew that his mind was made up, he felt a trembling of fear in his belly. But he knelt, put his weight on his hands; he let himself swing over and began to climb down the shaft toward the center of the Earth.


Взято из Флибусты, http://flibusta.net/b/655831
