
   The Visitor At The Zoo
   by Damon Knight
   I

    [Картинка: img_0007.png] 

   AS THE Flugbahn car began to slide away from the landing platform, the biped Fritz clutched the arms of his seat and looked nervously down through the transparent wall.
   He was unused to travel. Except for the trip by spaceship to Earth, which he hardly remembered, he had lived all his life in the Hamburg Zoo. Now - although he was sure the suspended car would not fall - being so high, and surrounded by nothing but glass, made him want to grip something for security.
   In the seat beside him, his keeper, a stupid man named Alleks, was unfolding the crisp parchment sheets of the Berliner.
   The biped’s home was eighteen light years away - in space - but remoter still in the distances of the mind!
   The breath whistled in his hairy nostrils as he gazed cow-eyed at the headlines. Down the aisle, the other passengers were all staring at Fritz, but being used to this, the biped hardly noticed it.
   Below, Berlin was spread out in the morning sun like a richly faded quilt. Looking back, as the car began to fall with increasing speed, Fritz could see the high platform where the Hamburg rocket-copter had landed, and the long spidery cables of the other Flugbahnen radiating outward to the four quarters of the city.
   The car swooped, rose, checked at a station platform. The doors opened and closed again, then they were falling once more. At the second stop, Alleks folded his paper and got up. Come, he said.
   Fritz followed him onto the platform, then into an elevator that dropped, in a dizzying fashion, through a transparent spiral tube, down, down and down, while the sunlit streets flowed massively upward. They got off into a bewildering crowd and a sharp chemical odor. Alleks, with a firm grip on the biped’s arm, propelled him down the street, through a tall open doorway, then into another elevator and finally into an office full of people.
   “My dear young sir,” said a redfaced fat man, advancing jovially, “come in, come in. Allow me to introduce myself, I am Herr Doktor Griick. And you are our new biped? Welcome, welcome!” He took the biped’s threefingered hand and shook it warmly, showing no distaste at the fact that it wascovered with soft, feathery-feeling spines.
   Other people were crowding around, some aiming cameras.“Sign,” said Alleks, holding out a dog-eared notebook.
   Dr. Griick took the notebook absently, scribbled, handed it back. Alleks turned indifferently and was gone.“Gentlemen and ladies,” said Griick in a rich tenor, “I have the honor to introduce to you our newest acquisition, Fritz - our second Brecht Biped - and you see that he is a male!”
   The biped darted nervous glances around the oakpaneled room, at the whirring cameras, the bookshelves, the massive chandelier, the people with their naked pink faces. His body was slight and supple, like that of a cat or a rooster. The grayishgreen, cactus-like spines covered him all over, except for the pinkish sacs that swung between his thighs. His odd-shaped head was neither human, feline nor avian, but something like all three. Above the eyes, in the middle of his wide sloping forehead, was a round wrinkled organ of a dusty redpurple color, vaguely suggestive of a cock’s comb, in shape more like a withered fruit.
   “A word for the newscast!” called some of the people with cameras.

    [Картинка: img_0008.png] 

   OBEDIENTLY, as he had been taught, the biped recited,“How do you do, gentlemen and ladies? Fritz, the biped, at your service. I am happy to be here and I hope you will come to see me often at the Berlin Zoo.” He finished with a little bow.
   Three white-smocked men stepped forward; the first bowed, took the biped’s hand. Wenzl, Head Keeper. He was bony and pale, with a thin straight mouth. The next man advanced, bowed, shook hands. Rausch, Dietitian. He was blonder and ruddier than Griick, with eyelashes almost white in a round, serious face. The third: Prinzmetal, our veterinary surgeon. He was dark andhad sunken cheeks.
   Dr. Griick beamed, his red face as stretched and shiny as if cooked in oil. His round skull was almost bald, but the blond hair, cut rather long, still curled crisply above his ears. His little blue eyes gleamed behind the rimless glasses. His body, round and firm as a rubber ball under the wide brown waistcoat and the gold watch-chain, radiated joy.“What a specimen!” he said, taking the biped’s jaw in one hand to open the mouth. “See the dentition!” The biped’s teeth were two solid pieces of cartilaginous tissue, with chiselshaped cutting edges. He broke free nervously after a moment, clacking his wide jaws and shaking his head.
   “Halt, Fritz!” said Griick, seizing him to turn him around. “See the musculature - perfect! The integument! The color! Never, I promise you, even on Brecht’s Planet, would you find such a biped. And he is already sexually mature, said Griick, probing with his fat hand between Fritz’s legs. Perfect! You would like to meet a female biped, would you not, Fritz?”
   The biped blinked and said haltingly,“My mother was a female biped, honored sir.”
   “Ha ha!” said Griick, full of good humor. “So she was! Correct, Fritz!” Rausch smiled; Prinzmetal smiled; even Wenzl almost smiled. Come then, first we will show you your quarters, and afterward - perhaps a surprise!”
   Picking up his shiny new valise, the biped followed Griick and the others out of the office, along a high, glass-walled corridor that overlooked the grounds with their scattered cages. People walking on the gravel paths looked up and began to point excitedly. Griick, in the lead, bowed and waved benignly down to them.
   Inside, they emerged in an empty hall. Wenzl produced a magnetic key to open a heavy door with a small pane of wired glass set into it. Inside, they found themselves in a small but conveniently arranged room, with walls and floor of distempered concrete, a couch which could be used for sitting or sleeping, a chair and table, some utensils, a washbowl and toilet.“Here is the bedroom,” said Dr. Griick with a sweeping gesture. “And here -” he led the way through a doorless opening - your personal living room. The outer wall was of glass, through which, behind an iron railing, they saw a crowd of people. The room was larger and more nicely furnished than the one inside. The floor was tiled and polished. The walls were painted. There was a comfortable relaxing chair, a television, a little table with some magazines and newspapers on it, a large potted plant, even a shelf full of books.
   “And now for the surprise!” cried Dr. Griick. Brushing the others aside, he led the way again through the bedroom, to another doorless opening in the far wall. The room beyond was much larger, with a concrete floor on which, however, some rubber mats had been laid, and two desks with business machines, filing cabinets, wire baskets, telephones, a pencil sharpener, a pneumatic conveyor and piles of documents.
   Across the room, beside one of the filing cabinets which had an open drawer, someone turned and looked at them in surprise. It was another biped, smaller and more faintly colored than Fritz. Of the other differences, the most notable was the organ in the middle of her forehead, which, unlike Fritz’s, was developed into a large, egg-shaped red-purple ball or knob. “Now the surprise!” cried Dr. Griick. Fritz, here stands Emma, your little wife!”
   With a faint shriek, the other biped clapped her hands over her head and scurried out of the room, leaving a storm of dropped papers to settle behind her.

   FRITZ sat in his relaxing chair staring disconsolately out through the glass at the darkening air of the Zoo grounds. It was late afternoon. The Zoo was about to close, and the paths were almost deserted.
   “That takes time, Dr. Griick had said heartily, patting him on the shoulder. Rest, get acquainted, tomorrow is better. Fritz, good afternoon!”
   Left alone, curious and vaguely excited, he had poked all around the work room, examining papers and opening drawers, then had wandered over to the doorway of the room into which Emma had disappeared. But no sooner had he put his nose timidly inside than her voice piped,“Go away! Go away, go away, go away!”
   Since then there had been silence from the room next to his. At feeding time Wenzl had come in with a cart, had left one tray for him, another for Emma. But although he listened intently, he had not heard a sound of knife or fork, or a glass set down.
   It was exciting to think of having another biped to talk to. It was not right for her to refuse to talk to him. Why should she want to make him miserable?
   As he stared through the window, his eye met that of a darkhaired young man who had paused outside. The man was carrying a camera and looked vaguely familiar. Perhaps he had been one of the reporters. He was slight and stooped, with very pale, clear skin and large, soft eyes. As they looked wordlessly at each other, Fritz felt an abrupt slipping and sliding; the room whirled arpund him.
   He struggled to get up from the floor. He could not understand what had happened to him, why it was suddenly so dark, why the room had grown so large. Then he squirmed up to hands and knees, and discovered that he was looking across an iron railing, through a window into a little lighted room in which a biped lay half sprawled in a chair, looking back at him with glazed eyes and making feeble motions with his arms.
   The afternoon breeze was crisp and sibilant along the path. There were smells of damp earth and of animals. Gravel crunched beside him, and a courteous voice said,“Is anything wrong, good sir?”
   The biped in the lighted room was floundering across the floor.
   Now he was beating with both hands on the glass, and his mouth opened and shut, opened and shut.
   You have dropped your camera, said the same voice. Allow me. Someone’s hands were patting him, with a curious muffled feeling, and he turned to glimpse a kindly, mustached face. Then something glittering was being thrust at him and he stared, with a kind of disbelieving wonder, as his hands closed automatically around the camera … his pink, hairy, five-fingeredhands, with their pale fingernails.

   II

   DR. GRIICK was alone in his office, with some preliminary budget figures spread out on his desk, and the greasy remains of a knackwurst dinner on a little table beside him. Wearing his reading spectacles, he looked like a rosy, good-humored old uncle out of Dickens. His little blue eyes blinked mildly behind the spectacles, and when he counted, his sausage-fat thumb and fingers went eins, zwei, drei.
   Humming, he turned a paper over. The melody he was humming was I Lost My Sock in Lauterbach.
   The paneled room was warm, comfortable and silent. And without my sock, I won’t go home, hummed the Director.
   The little desk visiphone flickered to life suddenly, and the tiny face in the screen said,“Doctor, if you please-”
   Griick frowned slightly, and pressed the stud.“Yes, Freda?”
   “Herr Wenzl wishes to speak with you, he says it is urgent.”
   “Well then, if it’s urgent, Freda, put him on.”
   “Thank you, Doctor.”
   The screen flickered again. Wenzl’s pale, fanatical face appeared.
   “Trouble with the new biped,” he began immediately.
   Griick took his glasses off, with fingers that fumbled.“The mischief!” he said. “What sort of trouble, Wenzl?”
   “Ten minutes ago,” said the head keeper precisely, “I was notified that Fritz was making a disturbance in his cage. I went there, and found he had been trying to break the window with a wooden chair.”
   “Terrible, but why?” cried Dr. Griick, his jowls wobbling. “I endeavored to calm Fritz,” continued Wenzl, “but he informed me that I was without authority over him, since he was not Fritz, but a journalist named Martin Naumchik.”
   Griick pursed his lips several times, unconsciously forming the syllable Num. He found some papers under his hand, looked at them in surprise, then pushed them aside with hasty, abstracted motions.
   “He also told me,” said Wenzl, “that Fritz had gone off in his body, with his camera and all his clothes.”
   Griick put both palms on his cheeks and stared at Wenzl’s image. In the little screen, Wenzl looked like a portrait doll made by someone with an unpleasant turn of fantasy. Full-sized, Wenzl was really not so bad. He had a mole, there were hairs in his nostrils, one saw his adam’s apple move when he spoke. But at the size of a doll, he was unbearable.
   “What steps have you taken?” Griick asked.
   “Restraint,” said Wenzl.
   “And your opinion?”
   “The animal is psychotic.”
   Griick closed his eyes, pinched the bridge of his nose between thumb and finger for a moment. He opened his eyes, settled himself before the desk.“Wenzl,” he said, “the biped is not necessarily psychotic. In our ten years with Emma, we have also seen some little fits of nerves, not so? As for Fritz, possibly he is only frightened, being in a new Zoo. Perhaps he wants reassurance, to dramatize himself a little, who knows? Can you show me in the handbooks where it says a biped goes psychotic?”
   Wenzl was silent and did not change expression.
   “No,” said Griick. “So let’s not be hasty, Wenzl. Remember that Fritz at present is our most valuable animal. Kindness, that does more than harsh words and beatings. A little sympathy, perhaps a smile -” He smiled, showing his small, blunt teeth as far back as the molars. “So, Wenzl? Yes?”
   “You are always right, Doctor,” said the head keeper sourly.
   “Good, then we shall see. Go and talk to him reasonably, Wenzl; take off the jacket, and if he is calm, bring him to me.”

   “I WILL give you five reasons why I am Martin Naumchik,” said the biped in a high, furious voice. His naked, greenspined body looked slender and fragile in the dark wooden chair. He leaned over the table toward Wenzl and Dr. Griick; his eyes were pink-rimmed, and the wide lipless mouth kept opening and closing.
   “First. I know Berlin, whereas your menagerie animal has never been here before, and certainly never had liberty to roam the streets. Ask me anything you like. Second. I can tell you the names of the editor, managing editor and all the rest of the staff of ParisSoir, I can repeat my last dispatchto them word for word, or nearly. If you give me a typewriter I’ll even write it out. Third …”
   “But my dear Fritz -” said Griick, spreading his fat pink hands, with an ingratiating smile.
   “Third,” repeated the biped angrily. “My girl-friend, Julia Schorr, will vouch for me, she lives at number forty-one, Heinrichstrasse, flat seventeen, her visi number is UNter den Linden 8-7403, I can also tell you that she keeps a Siamese cat named Maggie and that she cooks very good spaghetti. My God, if it comes to that, I can tell you what kind of underclothing she wears. Fourth, you can examine me yourselves, I took a degree at the Sorbonne in 1999 - ask about literature, mathematics, history, whatever you like! Fifth and last, I am Martin Naumchik, I have always been Martin Naumchik, I never even saw this ridiculous biped of yours until today, and if you don’t help me, I promise you, I’ll make such a stench … He fell silent. Well?”
   Griick and Wenzl exchanged glances.“My dear young sir,” said Griick, rumpling his untidy blond hair; his little eyes were squeezed together in a frown. “My dear young sir, you have convinced me, beyond any shadow of doubt-” the biped started eagerly- “that you believe yourself to be one Martin Naumchik, a human being, and a correspondent for ParisSoir, and so on, and so on.”
   The biped said in a choked voice,“Believe! But I’ve told you -”
   “Please!” Griick held up his hand. “Have the politeness to listen. I say that there is no doubt, no possible doubt, that you believe in what you say. Very good! Now. Allow me to ask you this question.” He folded his hands over his paunch, and his rosy lips shaped themselves into a smile.
   “Suppose that you are Martin Naumchik.” He waved his hand generously. “Go on. Suppose it, I make no objection. Very well, now you are Martin Naumchik. What is the result?”
   He leaned forward and stared earnestly at the biped. Wenzl, beside him, was grimly silent.
   “Why, you release me,” said the biped uncertainly. “You help me find that animal who has got into my body, and somehow - in some way-”
   “Yes?” said Dr. Griick encouragingly. “Somehow - in some way -”
   “There must be some way,” said the biped miserably.
   Griick leaned back, shaking his head.“To make you change around again? My dear young sir, reflect a moment on what you are saying. To put a man’s mind back in his body after it has gone into the body of an animal? Let’s not be children!
   “The thing is impossible, to begin with! You know it as well as I do! Supposing that it has actually happened once, still it’s just as impossible as before! My dear young sir! To put a man’s mind back in his body? How? With a funnel?”
   The biped was leaning his head on his greenspined hand.“If we could find out why it happened -” he muttered.
   “Good, yes,” said Griick sympathetically. “A very good suggestion: that is what we must do, by all means. Courage, Fritz, or Martin, as the case may be! This will take time, we must be prepared to wait. Patience and courage, eh, Fritz?”
   The biped nodded, looking exhausted.
   “Good, then it’s understood,” said Griick cheerfully, getting up. “We shall do everything we can, you may be quite sure of that, and in the meantime -” he motioned toward Wenzl, who had also risen - “a little cooperation, no trouble for poor Wenzl. Agreed, Fritz?”
   “You’re going to keep me here? On display?” cried the biped, stiffening again with indignation.
   “For the present,” said Griick soothingly. “After all, what choice have we got? To begin with, where would you go? How would you live? Slowly, we must go slowly, Fritz. Take an older man’s advice, haste can be the ruin of everything. Slowly, slowly, Fritz, patience and courage-”
   Wenzl took the biped’s slender arm and began to guide him out of the room. “My name is Martin Naumchik,” he muttered weakly as he disappeared.

   THE dim gray light of early morning flooded the outer rooms, illuminating everything but emphasizing nothing. For some reason - the biped had noticed it before - it made you see the undersides of things more than usual, the loose dingy cloth hanging under the seat of a chair, the grime and dust in corners, the ordinarily inconspicuous streaks, smears, scratches.
   He prowled restlessly down the corridor, past the closed doorway of the next room - the female had apparently up-ended a table against it - into the fluorescent-lit office space with its hooded machines, then back again. In his own inner room he caught sight of an ugly face in the mirror - greenish and flatmuzzled, like an impossible hybrid of dog and cock - and for a horrible instant did not realize it was his own.
   He clutched at the wall and began to weep. Strangled, inhuman sounds came out of his throat.
   Ten hours, ten hours or more, it must be. Just around supper time it had happened, and now it was past dawn. Ten hours, and he still wasn’t used to it, it was harder to bear than ever.
   He had to get out.
   The biped’s little valise was standing on the floor of the inner room near the washbowl. He pounced on it, ripped it open, flung the contents around. Toothbrush, chess set, some cheap writing paper, a dog-eared paperbound book called Brecht’s Planet: Riddle of the Universe; nothing useful. Weeping, he ran into the office room and snatched up the telephone receiver. The line was still dead. Probably it was not linked into the zoo switchboard this early in the morning. What else?
   He caught sight of one of the typewriters, stopped in surprise, then sat down before it and took the cover off.
   There was paper in a drawer. He rolled a sheet into the platen, switched the machine on, and sat for a moment anxiously gripping his three-fingered hands together.
   The words took shape in his mind:“My name is Martin Naumchik. I am being held prisoner in …”
   His hands stabbed at the keyboard, and the type bars piled up against the guide with a clatter and a snarl; the carriage jumped over and the paper leaped up a space.
   The pain of realization was so great that he instinctively tried to bit his lip. He felt the stiff flesh move numbly, sliding against his teeth. Biting his lip was one of the things he could not do now. And typing was another.
   It was too much. He would never get used to it. He would always forget, and be snubbed up like an animal at the end of a chain…
   After a moment, half-blinded by tears, he pried at the jammed keys until they fell back. Then, painfully, picking out the letters with one finger, he began again:“My name is M …”
   In half an hour, he had finished his account of the facts. Next it would be necessary to establish his identity. Perhaps that should come first, or the story would never even be read. He took a fresh sheet, and wrote:
   M. Frederic Stein
   PARIS-SOIR
   98, rue de la Victoire
   Paris 9e (Seine)

   Dear Frederic:
   You will know the enclosed is really from me by the following: When I was last in Paris, you and I went to the Rocking Florse and got tanked on mint whistles. There were three greenies in the jug. You told me about certain troubles with your wife, and we discussed your taking a correspondent’s job in the Low Countries.
   This is not a joke; I need your help - in God’s name, do whatever.
   He paused, and over the machine’s hum was lucky enough to hear the whisper of footsteps in the corridor. He had barely time to turn off the machine, cover it and hide the typed pages in a drawer.
   A young keeper with a sullen, pimpled face came in, wheeling a cart with two steaming trays. It was breakfast time.
   His first day as a caged animal was about to begin.

   III

   THERE in the middle of the city, the streets were as bright as if it were day. Over the tesselated pavements people were wandering. Music drifted seductively from an open doorway; all the scarlet blossoms of the Antarean air-weed, clinging to the sides of the buildings, were open and exuding a fresh pungence.
   In one of the brilliant display windows, as he passed, the young man saw a row of green creatures in glass cages - sluggish globular animals about the size of a tomato, with threads of limbs and great dull green eyes. They floated on the green-scummed surface of the shallow water in the cages, or climbed feebly on bits of wet bark. Over them was a streamer: TAKE A WOG HOME TO THE CHILDREN.

    [Картинка: img_0009.png] 

   He passed on. The people around him, moving in groups and couples for the most part, were a different sort than he was used to seeing at the Zoo in Hamburg. They were better dressed, better fed, their skins were clearer and redder and they laughed more. The women were confections of white-blonde hair and red cheeks, with sparkling white teeth and flashing nails, and they wore puffed, shining garments like the glittering paper around an expensive gift. The men were more austere in dark, dull reds and blues. Their feet were thinly shod in gleaming patent leather, and their hair shone with pomade. Their talk, in the unfamiliar Berlin accent, eddied around him: confident tones, good humor, barks of laughter.
   Very faintly, beneath his feet, the star mosaic of the pavement shook to the passage of an express car underneath. Here in the aboveground everyone was on foot. There was no wheeled vehicle in sight, not even an aircar: only the bright thread of one of the Flugbahnen visible in the distance.
   Around the corner, in a little square surrounding the heroic anodized aluminum figure of a man in spaceman’s dress, helmet off, an exultant expression on his metal face, the young man saw a tall illuminated panel on the side of a building. Luminous words were shuddering slowly down the panel, line by line. The young man moved closer, through the loose crowd of bystanders, and read:
   INTERPLANET LINER CRASHES ON MARS;
   ALL BELIEVED DEAD Passenger list to follow
   MOVING-MACHINE THIEVES COMMIT ANOTHER
   OUTRAGE IN BERLIN Will be brought to justice, vows Funk
   HIGH ASSEMBLY VOTES TO ANNEX THIESSEN’s PLANT Vote is 1150 for to 139 against SPACE STOCKS CLOSE AT RECORD HIGH Society for Spaceflight, I.C.S.S.A. lead advance READ FULL DETAILS IN THE BERLINER ZEITUNG
   The letters drifted down, like tongues of cold flame, and were followed by an advertisement for Heineken’s beer.
   The young man turned away, having read all the headlines with appreciation but without any interest whatever; he walked further down the street and gazed in fascination at the marquee of a cinema, where through some illusion brightly-colored ten-foot figures of men and women seemed to be dancing. Even here he could not give his full attention. He was bothered, and increasingly so, by certain demands of his, body.

   HE HAD an insistent urge to tear off the muffling, unfamiliar garments he was wearing, but realized it would attract attention to himself, and besides, this bald body would probably be cold. He had not realized that a simple thing like this could become so difficult. At home in the zoo he had had his own little W.C., and that was that. People must have theirs, but where? What did people do who were strangers in Berlin? He looked around. He did not see a policeman, but a woman who was passing with her escort paused, looking at him, and on an impulse he stepped forward and said politely,“Pardon me, madam, but can you direct me to the W.C.?”
   Her face registered first surprise, then shock, and she turned to her companion saying angrily,“Come on, he’s drunk.” They walked rapidly away, the man’s scowling face turned over his shoulder. The word “Disgraceful!” floated back.
   Surprised and hurt, the young man stood for a moment watching them out of sight; then he turned in the opposite direction.
   The place he was passing now was called Konstantin’s Cafe. The sight of people sitting at table, visible through the big window, reminded him that he was hungry and thirsty. After a moment’s hesitation, he went in.
   A slender red-jacketed waiter met him alertly in the foyer.“Yes, sir? A table for one?”
   “Yes, if you like,” said the young man. The waiter hesitated, glancing at him oddly, then turned through the archway. “Come this way, sir.”
   The young man gave his surcoat and camera to a girl who asked for them. Inside, waiters in red jackets were moving like ants among the snowy tabletops; the room was crowded with rich silks and velvets of all colors, flushed clean faces, smiling mouths; unfamiliar smells of food swam in the air. The thick carpet muffled all footsteps, but there was a heavy burden of voices, clattering silverware, and music from some invisible source.
   A little intimidated by so much crowded luxury, the young man followed the waiter to a small table and sat down.
   The waiter opened a stiff pasteboard folder with a snap and presented it; the young man took it automatically, and in a moment perceived that it was a list of foods.
   “To begin with, an aperitif, sir?” asked the waiter. “Some hors-d’oeuvres? Or shall we say a salad?”
   The young man blinked at the menu, then set it down.“No,” he replied, “but-”
   “Just the dinner, then, sir,” said the waiter briskly. “If the gentleman will permit, I recommend the truite au beurre canopeen, with a Moselle, very good, sir.”
   “All right, the young man said hesitantly, but first-”
   “Ah, an aperitif, after all?” asked the waiter, smiling with annoyance. “Some hors-d’oeuvres? Or-”
   “No, I don’t wish any of those, thank you,” said the young man, making a clumsy gesture and oversetting a goblet.
   “But then, what is it that the gentleman wishes?” The waiter righted the goblet, brushed at the tablecloth, stood back.
   The young man blinked slowly.“I wish for you to direct me to the W.C., if you would be so kind.”

   HE half expected the waiter to react like the woman in the street, but the man’s keen face only closed expressionlessly, and he leaned down to murmur, “The doorway behind the curtain at the rear, sir.”
   “Thank you, you are very kind.”
   “Not at all, sir.” The waiter went away. The young man got up and went in the indicated direction. Although he tried to move carefully, he was still very clumsy in his body, and sometimes would forget and pause between steps to try and shake off one of his shoes. When he did this, he noticed that some of the diners looked at him strangely. He determined to break the habas soon as possible.
   When he returned, after some trouble with the unfamiliar fastenings, the waiter was just removing from a little silver cart a covered platter, which he placed on the table and unveiled with a flourish. The young man sat down. The waiter took a slender bottle from the cart, uncorked it, poured a pale liquid into the goblet and stood back expectantly.
   The young man looked at his plate.
   The food steamed gently; there were five or six different things, each of its own color, beautifully arranged on the platter. He had never seen any of them before, except possibly in magazines, and all the smells were unfamiliar. Nevertheless, he picked up his fork and pried at the largest object, a roughly oval burnt-brown mass which came away flakily, running with juices. He put the fork in his mouth on the second try. The food was a moist, unpleasant lump on his tongue: the taste was so startling that he immediately turned his head and spat it out.
   The waiter looked down at the carpet, then at the young man. Then he went away.
   The young man was gingerly trying some light green strips, which he found unusual but palatable, when the waiter came back.“Sir, the manager would like to speak with you, if you please.” He gestured toward the foyer.
   “Oh? With me?” The young man stood up agreeably, oversetting the goblet again. The pale liquid ran over the tablecloth and began to drip onto the carpet. “I am so sorry,” he said, and began to mop at it with his napkin.
   “It’s of no consequence,” said the waiter grimly, and took the young man by the arm. “If you please, sir.”
   In the foyer they met another waiter, who took his other arm. Someone handed him his surcoat and camera. Together the two waiters began to propel him toward the exit.
   The young man craned his head around.“The manager?” he asked.
   “The manager,” said the first waiter, “wishes you to leave quietly, without disturbance, sir.”
   “But I haven’t yet paid for my food,” said the young man.
   “There is no charge, sir,” said the waiter, and they were at the door. The two gave him a last push. He was in the street.

   IN THE men’s room of a pfennig gallery, a little later (at least he was becoming adept at finding W.C.‘s), the young man was examining the contents of his pockets. He discovered that he was Martin Naumchik, European citizen, born Asnieres (Seine) 1976, complexion fair, eyes brown, hair brown, no arrest record, no curtailment of citizenship, no identifying marks or scars, employed by ParisSoir, 98 rue de la Victoire, Paris (9e); that he had a driver’s license, a Cordon Bleu diner’s card, a press card in five languages and a notebook full of penciled scribbling which he could not read. In his billfold were forty marks, and in the pockets of his trousers, jacket and surcoat some coins amounting to another two or three marks. That was all, except some ticket stubs, a key on a gold ring, tissues, pocket lint, a half-empty pack of cigarettes, and a crumpled envelope, addressed to Herr Martin Naumchik, 67, Gastnerstrasse, Berlin.
   The young man had partially satisfied his hunger with two sausages on rolls, bought at a stall near the gallery, but he was tired, lonely and bewildered. At that moment he would have been glad to go back to the Zoo, but he had lost his directions and did not know where it was. He left the gallery and moved on down the street.
   The cinema beckoned to him with the open wings of its lobby and the gigantic displays on either side: figures of men and women, glossy leaves, planets floating in a violet-gray sky. Illuminated signs announced:
   Experience new sensations!
   Unprecedented excitement!
   UNDER SEVEN MOONS Stella Pain - Willem DeGroot
   “Indescribable!” - Tageblatt.
   The price was two marks ten. The young man paid, took his ticket and went in. A few people were standing about in the anteroom, talking and smoking. There were exotic fruits and confections for sale at a long counter, and rows of automatic machines for drinks, candy, tissues. The young man gave his ticket to the turnstile machine at the door, got a stub back and found himself in a huge well of darkened seats, lit only by faint glimmers from the distant walls. Here and there around the vast bowl, clumps of people were sitting. Three-quarters of the seats were empty. There was very little noise, no one was talking or moving, evidently the show had not yet begun. The young man groped his way down the aisle, chose a seat and unfolded it. The instant he settled down and put his hands on the armrests, sound and motion exploded around him.

   HE sprang up convulsively, into darkness and silence. The huge almost empty bowl of the theater was just as it had been before: the flashing phantom shapes he had seen were nowhere.
   After a moment, cautiously, he touched one of the armrests again. Nothing happened. The other armrest. Still nothing. Gingerly and with trepidation, he unfolded the seat and lowered himself into it.
   Again the sudden blast of light and sound. This time he glimpsed figures, heard words spoken before he leaped upright again.
   All around him, the people were sitting in eerie, intent silence. Then this must be how one saw a movie - not projected on a wall, as he had always imagined, but somehow mysteriously existing when one sat in the chair. Shaking with nervousness, but determined not to be a coward, he sat down one more and gripped the armrests hard.
   Light and sensation surrounded him. He was seeing the upper portions of two gigantic humans, a female and a male, against a violet sky in which two moons shone dimly. Simultaneously there was a grinding, insistent roar of wind and the man’s stentorian voice bellowed out, “Gerda, you are mine!” His face stared into hers, his strong brown hands gripped her bare arms while she replied, “I know it, Friedrich.” The words crashed into the young man’s eardrums like bombs. The two immense bodies were not far away, at the end ofthe theater, but loomed before him almost close enough to touch. They glowed with color, not a natural color but something altogether different and arresting, luminous pastel tones overlying shadows of glowing darkness, with a rather disturbing suggestion of dead black in all the outlines, almost like a colored engraving. They had depth but not reality, and yet they were incredibly more than mere pictures. The young man realized, with a shock of surprise, that he could smell the cold salt air, and that without knowing in the least how, he was aware of the very texture of the giant woman’s skin - smooth and waxy, like a soft artificial fruit - and of the cat-smelling tawny softness of her long blonde . hair whipping in the wind, and the hard-edged glossy stiffness of the green leaves in the near background.
   “Gerda!” roared the man.
   “Friedrich!” she trumpeted sadly
   Then without moving a muscle the two of them vertiginously receded, as if an invisible car were drawing them rapidly away, and as they dwindled, standing and staring at one another, greenleaved shrubs gathered in to fill the space, and the sky somehow grew bigger - there were three moons drifting with a perceptible motion through the violet sky - and at that moment with a thunderous rushing sound, the rain began. Dry as he sat there, the young man could feel the streaming wetness pelting the leaves; it was lukewarm. Music skirled up in wild dissonances, lightning cracked the sky apart and thunder boomed.
   It was too much.
   The young man stood up, trembling all over. Sight, touch and sound vanished instantly. He was alone in the vast theater with the silent, motionless people who sat in darkness.
   He moved shakily to the aisle and went out, grateful for the quiet and the sense of being alone in his skin again. He was sorry to have given up so quickly, but consoled himself with the thought that it was his first time. Later, perhaps, he would grow used to it.

   AT A kiosk in the middle of the street, newspapers and magazines were on sale in metal dispensers. Beside this stood a dirty small boy and an old gray woman, with a portable teleset tuned to a popular singer. The little boy was singing harmony with him, badly, in a strained soprano. There were coins scattered on the little folding table in front of the teleset. Further along, two drunken and disheveled men were scuffing ineffectually, grabbing at each other’s surcoats for balance. A brightly painted woman giggled, but most people paid no attention. Three dark young men walked by abreast, scowling, with identical dark long surcoats and oiled forelocks. Tall cold-light signs over the buildings blinked, MOBIL. TELEFUNKEN, KRUPP-FARBEN. The young man moved through the crowd, listening to the voices and the snatches of music from open doorways, looking at faces, pausing to stare at the glittering merchandise in shop windows.
   When he had been walking in the same direction for some time, he came upon a store which seemed to fill an entire square of its own, with many busy entrances and rows of brilliantly lighted display windows. The name, in tall cold-light letters over each entrance, was ELEKTRA. For want of any other direction, the young man drifted in with the crowd.
   Inside, the store appeared to be one gigantic room, high-ceilinged, echoing, glittering everywhere with reflected lights. Banks of brightly illuminated display cases were ranged in parallel lines, leaving aisles between. In open spaces were statues, great flowering plants, constructions of golden and white metal. The murmuring of the crowd washed back from the distant ceiling: up there, the young man noticed, were fiery trails of light, red, green, blue, amber, that pulsed and seemed to travel along the ceiling like the exhausts of rockets. The air was heavy with women’s mingled scents and with other, unidentifiable odors; there was quiet music in the background, and a faint, multiple clicking or clattering sound.
   The young man went in tentatively, listening and watching. A woman and an older man were standing by the entrance to one of the aisles, arguing vehemently in low, crisp voices; the young man caught the words, Twenty millions at the minimum. A child in a red coat was crying, being dragged along by an angry woman. A man in dark-blue uniform went hurrying by, the trousers snapping about his ankles.
   There were signs in colored lights on the ceiling; one red one said“MEN’s WEAR” and a red trail went pulsing off from it; another, blue, said “WATCHES AND JEWELRY”; another, green, “CAMERAS.”
   The young man followed the green trail, fascinated. Lines of people, most of them women, were moving slowly along the row of showcases. Here and there, the young man saw someone put money into one of the cases, open the glass front and take out a blouse or an undergarment, a pair of stockings, a scarf.
   The young man had never seen so many beautiful things in one place. Here he was now in a whole corridor lined with nothing but cameras, hundreds of cameras, all achingly polished and bright; the winking reflections from their round eyes of metal and glass followed him as he walked. He actually saw a man buy one: a huge thing, big as the man’s head, with pale leather sides and a complexity of lens tubes, dials, meters. The man held-it reverently in his hands, staring at it as if at a loved one’s face. As the glass door closed, a mechanism slowly revolved and another camera, just like the first, descended to fill the empty case. Asthe customer walked away, the young man looked at the price on the chrome rim of the showcase: it was 700 marks. He looked again at the beautiful camera behind the glass door, then at the one which hung around his neck. It was smaller and the metal was not so bright; the black sides were worn in places, and it did not look so beautiful as it had before. The young man walked on, looking down at himself, and was aware that his dark surcoat was worn thin at the cuffs, his shoes needed polishing, there was lint and dust on his trousers.

    [Картинка: img_0011.png] 

   So, then, it was not enough to be a human being! One must also have money. The young man vaguely supposed that if he had 700 marks, his head would not ache so, he would not have the uncomfortable feeling in his insides that was bothering him more and more, he would not be tired and irritable.
   But he had not the least idea how people got money.

   TO make himself feel better, he stopped in the next section and bought a wristwatch with an expanding platinum band. He put a ten-mark bill into the slot. The mechanism hummed and gripped the ten marks, pulling it gradually inside until it was all gone; then there was a clatter in the receptacle underneath, and the glass door swung open. The young man took out his watch and admired it. The marvelous thing was already running, the second hand sweeping silently around the black dial. He put it on his wrist, first the wrong way around, then the right way. In the receptacle were twenty-seven pfennigs in silver and copper. He scooped them up. Above, the mechanism was revolving and another wristwatch came into view. The young man found that he could not resist it. He put another ten marks into the machine, receiving another wristwatch and another twenty-seven pfennigs in change. He put the second watch on his other wrist. Now he felt rich and handsome. He held out his arms stiffly, to make the cuffs of his sleeves slide back so that he could admire his watches. Both showed the identical time: 20 hours 13 minutes. Now he would always be sure what time it was, because if the two watches showed different times he would know one was wrong, but if the same time, then they must be right.
   Feeling pleased to have worked this out for himself, and to have made so sound a purchase, he went on. In an open space at the end of the aisle, he saw curved escalators rising in spirals past the ceiling, and beyond them, banks of elevators with doors that constantly opened and shut: click, a door was open, someone stepped in, click, the door closed, and in an instant it had whisked its passenger off and was open again.
   Diagonally across the open space, he caught sight of another group of illuminated trails on the ceiling, and it seemed to him that one of them was labeled Foods. He went that way eagerly, and nearly knocked down a hatless man in blue uniform, who frowned at him and said,“I beg your pardon, sir.”
   “No, I beg your pardon.”
   “Not at all, sir.”
   “It’s very kind of you.”
   “An honor, sir.”
   They both bowed and went on their way. The young man found that the sign did say Foods. He followed its pink trail until he came to a sunken area full of people with metal carts, and the carts loaded with packages. He went down the five or six steps, sniffing the air, and found a new set of lighted trails that pointed to“Canned Goods, Perishables, Meats” and so on. Passing through “Canned Goods,” he came upon a stout man in a plaid surcoat who was lifting a can out of an open case and putting it on top of three others just like it in a cart.
   The young man paused to watch.
   The mechanism inside the case slowly revolved; another large, odd-shaped can came down into view, and now the young man could see that it was labeled COPENHAGEN SMOKED HAM, with a picture of a slab of pink meat. The cover of the display case was still open. As soon as the mechanism stopped, the stout man reached in, took out the canned ham, and put it in his cart along with the other four. The mechanism began to revolve again. The stout buyer glanced over his shoulder at the young man, hesitated, then took out a sixth ham and put it with the other five. The mechanism revolved again. As far as the young man could make out, the stout man had not put in any money. Each time he removed a ham, the door swung down but did not latch. Then the stout man lifted it up again and reached for the next ham.

   THE buyer looked around again, glanced from side to side, and muttered,“Go on, get away, can’t you see I’m busy?”
   “I’m sorry,” said the young man politely, “but I only wanted to be next for the hams.”
   The stout customer growled something, trying to look at the next ham and at the young man simultaneously.
   “Pardon?” “I said devil’s dirt,” the stout man growled more distinctly. The mechanism stopped; he reached in and took the seventh ham.
   At that moment one of the blue-uniformed men appeared at the end of the aisle. The stout customer was holding the ham close to his chest. The blue-uniformed man turned toward them.
   The stout customer wheeled abruptly, thrust the ham into the young man’s arms, said petulantly, “Here, then,” and walked rapidly away.
   “One moment, please!” called the approaching blue-uniformed map.
   Still moving rapidly away, and without turning his head, the stout man said something that sounded like,“Run, you fool!”
   The man in the blue uniform took something out of his pocket. It was an electric bell, which began to ring insistently and loudly. Inside the display case, the mechanism was revolving, presenting another canned ham. The young man looked at it, then at the one he held, and felt a vague alarm. The stout man was moving faster; the one in blue uniform was waving and shouting. The young man turned and began to run, although he did not know why.
   At the front of the food section, another blue-uniformed man was coming toward him from the left. The young man scrambled up the five steps, holding the canned ham awkwardly to his chest. The stout man was nowhere in sight.
   “Stop!” called one of the blue-uniformed men. But the young man’s heart was beating in unreasonable panic. He ran across the open space, dodging back and forth between shoppers’ carts, pursued by shouts and the ringing of the bell. Another bell began to ring, somewhere off to his right, then a third. Utterly terrified, unaware of what he was doing, the young man dropped the ham on the floor and ran at a woman with a full cart, who shrieked and pushed it into another cart, oversetting both and spilling oranges like quicksilver on the floor. The young man ran past her, nearly falling, and found himself between two advancing men in blue, while before him was only a decorative grille of arabesques in gold-plated metal, which reached all the way to ‘a balcony on the second level. With a gasp of fright, the young man flung himself at this grille and began to limb it. In spite of theclumsiness of his feet, which would not grip and could not even feel the metal, he was above the men’s heads in a moment, and they shook their fists at him, shouting, “Despicable ruffian, come down here!”
   The young man kept on climbing. Shortly, the people on the floor below were colorful dolls, many with faces turned to look up at him. One of the blue-uniformed men had begun to climb the grille, but now the young man was almost at the top.
   He arrived at the top of the grille, and reaching up, found that he could grasp the railing of the balcony and swing himself up and over. Panting with exertion, he found himself in a narrow corridor, lined on the wall side with open doorways from which came the sounds of voices and the clicking of machines. A man stepped out of a doorway some distance down the corridor and craned his neck to listen to the sound of the bells. He turned, saw the young man.“Hi!” he called, starting forward.

   THE young man ran again.
   Faces turned, startled, inside the rooms as he passed; he caught glimpses of men and women in their blouse sleeves, of desks and office equipment. The next door was closed and was marked Stair. The young man opened it, hesitated briefly between two narrow flights, then chose the up flight and went bounding up, three steps at a time, swinging around at each tiny landing until he grew dizzy. Below, voices echoed. He kept on going up past other landings and closed, dark doors, narrower and dingier, until he reached the top. The stairs ended at one last door, lit only by a grimy skylight through which filtered a dim violet glow.
   The young man paused to listen. Deep down, there were tiny voices, like the chirping of insects under layer after layer of earth.
   He opened the door and went in. He was on a floor of empty rooms, dark and gray with dust. Everything was much older and shabbier-looking than the glittering aisles downstairs. In the weak light from small pebble-glass windows, he saw goods piled in the corners of one room, a neglected huddle of filing cabinets in another. There was no one here. No one had come here for a long time.
   At the end of the hall, half hidden by an ancient wardrobe, was another door, another stair, the narrowest and darkest of all - plain bare wood, that creaked under his steps as he went up. It was only one short flight, and at the top he found himself in a tiny room with slanting walls.
   Bundles of papers lay piled on the floor, yellow and brittle under their coating of dust. There was a length of rope, an old light bulb or two, some shredded bits of paper that might have been gnawed by small animals. All this he saw in the dim, cool light from a triangular window under the peak of the roof. It was a wide window, framed in old ornate moulding that filled almost the entire wall, and from it, when he had rubbed a clear space with his hand, he could see the city spread out below him.
   Silent and empty it lay under the violet sky, all the buildings peacefully ranked one beyond another out to the misty horizon. Some of the building faces were illuminated by the glow of the avenues, but no sound came up from those lower levels. It was like a deserted city, whose inhabitants had gone away leaving all the lights on. The luminous strand of a Flugbahn hung empty against the sky. In the twilight the letters of sky-signs stared coldly: MOBIL, URANIA, IBM, ALT WIEN.
   The young man looked around him with calm satisfaction.
   He was still hungry and in bodily distress, but here he was safe and sheltered. With those papers he could make a bed, here by the window. He would look out at the world all day, as long as he wished, and no one would know he was here at all.
   He sat down and let his muscles relax. After all, to be free and to have a place of one’s own were what mattered most. He had been terribly frightened, but now he could see that it was all coming right in the end.
   With a contented glance around at the dim, slanting walls, which already had the comforting familiarity of home, he lay down on the floor and let the slow waves of silence muffle him to sleep.

   IV

   THE food in the tray turned out to be a steaming mess of something dark green and odorous, the consistency of mud, with chunks of fibrous substance mixed up in it.
   The biped was hungry, but repelled by the unappetizing appearance and smell of the stuff, and did not touch any. Next door he heard the scrape of a spoon on the metal plate: the female was eating hers, anyhow. The keeper had removed the table from her doorway and lectured her severely. He had not heard what she replied, if anything. The biped tried to sip water from the bowl on his tray, found that his stiff mouth would not permit it, and dashed the bowl to the floor with a sudden howl of fury. Immediately afterward he grew thirsty, and filled the bowl again from the washbowl faucet. He tried lapping the water with his tongue, and got some relief that way, but not enough water to swallow. He ended by pouring water into his open mouth, half choking himself before he discovered the trick of throwing his head back to swallow.
   His chest and legs were sodden, the feathery spines clumped together with moisture. He felt acutely uncomfortable until he had dried himself with a towel. For some reason, the trivial incident depressed him severely. He tried to cheer himself up by thinking of the unfinished letter hidden in the desk, but to his despair found that he no longer cared about it. He sat in the inner room and stared dully at the wall.
   He was roused from his torpor by footsteps in the office space, and Griick’s cheerful voice calling, “Fritz! Emma!” The pimpled young keeper came in, looked at his untouched tray and removed it without comment.
   The biped got up, simply because it would have required mpre resolution to stay where he was. He followed the keeper into the office space.
   The keeper was showing the tray to Griick and Wenzl, who stood side by side, Griick ample in brown broadcloth, Wenzl narrow in his white smock.“Nothing eaten, sirs.”
   Wenzl glared, but Griick said expansively,“Never mind, never mind! Take it away, Rudi - this morning our guest is not so hungry, it’s natural! Now!” He rubbed his fat pink hands together, beaming. “But where is our beautiful Emma?” He turned. “Emma?”
   The female was in the doorway of her room, peeping out, only one side of her face visible. At Griick’s command she advanced a few steps, then hesitated. Her arms were raised, both hands clasped tightly over her forehead, hiding the knob.
   “But, Emma,” said Griick reproachfully, “is this our hospitality? When were we ever so impolite? And our friend’s first day, too!”
   She made a wordless sound, looking at the biped.
   “You are alarmed, Emma, he frightens you?” Griick asked, looking from one to another. Ah, loveling, there is nothing to be frightened of. You are going to be great friends - yes, you will see! And besides, Emma, what about all the work that is here?”
   The female spoke up unexpectedly, in a thin, absurdly human voice.“Take him away, please, and I’ll do it all myself, Herr Doktor.” She glanced toward the biped, then ducked her head.
   “No, no, Emma, that is not right. But let me tell you something. Because you are so alarmed, so frightened, we want you to be happy, Emma, we are going to do something to relieve this fear. (Wenzl, some chalk.) Fritz shall stay and help you with the work -”
   “No, no.”
   “Yes, yes! And you will like it, wait and see. (The chalk, Wenzl - ha!)” Wenzl had spoken sharply to Rudi, the pimpled young keeper, who, blushing, had fumbled in his pockets and produced a piece of pink chalk. Wenzl, snatching it, now handed it to Griick.
   “See here, Emma,” said Griick soothingly, “we are going to draw a line on the floor. I draw it myself, because I want you to be happy - so …” Bending with a grunt, he began at the wall between the two bedroom doors and drew a wavering chalk line across the room, separating it into two roughly equal parts.
   “Now,” he said from the far side, straightening up in panting triumph, “see here, Emma, on this side, Fritz stays. Correct, Fritz?”
   “Whatever you like,” said the biped indifferently.
   “See, he gives me his promise,” said Griick, with emphasis. “And my promise to you, Emma. So long as he stays on his side of the room, you will work on your side, and not be frightened. But if he should cross over the line, Emma, then you have my permission to be frightened again, and to run into your room and bar the door! Understood?”
   The female seemed impressed.“Very well then, Herr Doktor,” she said at last.
   “Good!” ejaculated Griick. He rubbed his hands together, beaming. “Now, what else is left?” He looked around the room. “Wenzl, move one of those typewriters so that Fritz has one to use. And some of the work, also, on this side - not too much for Fritz, I’m sure Emma works much faster! Good, good.” He started to leave, followed by Wenzl and the young keeper. “Until next time, then, Emma, Fritz!”
   The door closed.

   THE biped made as if to sit down at his desk. At his first movement Emma flinched back, jaw gaping in fright, hands over her knob. This startled the biped, who said irritably,“I’m not going to hurt you.”
   “Don’t speak to me,” the female said faintly. She clutched her knob. Her body was trembling all over, slightly but perceptibly.
   The biped, trying to ignore her involuntary starts and shrieks, moved to the desk and sat down. He took the cover off his machine, looked at the heap of dictaphone spools in the in basket, then opened the desk drawer and quickly glanced inside to make sure his letter was there. By this time, the female was in the doorway of her room, poised for further flight.
   Under her horrified gaze, the biped did not dare take his unfinished letter out of the drawer. He picked up the first dictaphone spool, inserted it in the machine, put the earphones on his head and began to listen.
   A sudden loud noise in his ears made him jump and tear off the earphones. After a moment he turned down the volume and cautiously tried again. A voice was speaking faintly; he recognized it as Griick’s, but could not make out the words. He turned the spool back to start. The abrupt sound came again, and this time he realized that it was Griick clearing his throat.
   He turned up the volume. Griick’s voice was saying, “Attention, Emma! Here is tape number two of Some Aspects of Extra-Terrestrial Biology. Begin. Bibliography. Birney, R. C. Bayee-air-en-eh-ipsilon, Emma. Phylum and genus in the Martian biota. Journal of comparative physiology, 1985, 50, 162 to 167. Bulev, M. I. Bay-oo-ell-eh-fow, Emma. Remember, not with vay again, as last time! A preliminary study of natator veneris schultzii. Dissertation abstracts, 1990, 15, 1652 to 1653. Cooper, J. G. …”
   The biped irritably removed the earphones and switched off the machine. The earphones did not press hard on his small external ears, but they felt unfamiliar and made him nervous.
   The female had moved out a few steps from her doorway, but when he glanced up, she backed away hastily.
   The biped swore. After a moment, reluctantly, he turned the dictaphone spool back to the beginning and put the earphones on again. He rolled paper into the typewriter carriage, then switched on the dictaphone and began trying to type as he listened. But in the first few words he typed there were so many errors that he ripped the paper out and threw it in the wastebasket.
   There was a stifled shriek from the female, who had advanced halfway across the room. Clutching her knob, she retreated two steps.
   “Don’t look at me!” she piped.
   “Then don’t shriek,” said the biped, annoyed. He rolled another sheet into the machine.
   “I wouldn’t shriek, if you only wouldn’t look at me.”
   He glanced up.“How can I help looking at you if you shriek?”
   Except for another piping sound, more a gasp than a scream, she made no reply. The biped went back to work. Touching one key at a time with painful care, he managed to get through five entries in the bibliography before making an error.
   He threw the pages away and started over once more.

    [Картинка: img_0012.png] 

   TIME passed. At length he was aware that the female had crossed the room to her desk. He concentrated on his work, and did not look up. After a few minutes, he heard the clatter of her machine. Her typing was smooth and rapid; the carriage banged against the stop, banged back, and reeled off another line.
   Angrily, the biped hit a key too hard and it repeated. He ripped the page out.
   “You are spoiling all your work,” she said.
   He glanced up - her hands leaped to her knob - he looked down again.“I can’t help it if I am,” he said.
   “Weren’t you taught to type properly?”
   “No. I mean yes.” The biped clenched his three-fingered fists in frustration. “I know how to type, but this animal doesn’t. I can’t make his hands work.”
   She stared at him with her mouth slightly open. It was plain that she did not understand a word.
   The biped growled angrily and went back to his work. After a moment he heard the clatter of Emma’s machine begin again.
   For a long time neither spoke. Keeping at it grimly, in the next hour the biped managed to complete a page. He took it from the machine and put it into his out basket with a feeling of triumph. Glancing over at the female’s desk, he was a little disconcerted to note that her out basket was heaped with typescript and dictaphone spools, while her in basket was empty.
   His back and his hands ached from the unaccustomed work. He felt weary and dejected again. How was he going to finish the letter, the all-important letter, while the female was constantly in the same room? Perhaps if he deliberately frightened her once again…
   The thought ended as he heard the outer door open. Emma looked up expectantly. The clatter of her machine ceased. She covered the machine in two deft movements and stood up.
   In walked Griick, beaming and nodding; then Wenzl, grim as ever; finally the pimply keeper with his cart.
   Griick’s expression changed slightly when he glanced at the biped.
   “Please!” he ejaculated, making upward motions with his fat hands. Belatedly realizing what was meant, the biped got up and stood at attention beside his desk, as Emma was doing beside hers.
   “Good!” cried Griick happily. “Excellent! You see, Fritz, a little politeness, and everything is better.” He turned to Emma, examined the contents of her out basket, beaming with approval. “Fine, Emma, good work. Emma shall have three bonbons with her dinner! You hear, Rudi?”
   “Very good, Herr Doktor,” said the keeper, with a bow. He put three large lumps of some drylooking, pale green substance on a plate which already contained a sort of gray-brown stew, and carried it into Emma’s room. When he returned, Griick was staring at the biped’s out basket with an expression of hurt disbelief.
   “Fritz, can this be all?” asked Griick. “For a whole morning’s work? Surely you can’t be so lazy!”
   The biped muttered,“I did the best I could.”
   Griick shook his head sadly.“No bonbons for Fritz today, Karl. What a shame, eh, Wenzl? Poor Fritz has earned no bonbons. We are sorry for Fritz. But to give him bonbons for such work would not be fair to Emma, who works hard! Correct, Wenzl?”
   Wenzl, fixing the biped with a cold and unregretful stare, said nothing. Griick went on,“But this afternoon, if there is an improvement - well, we shall see! Until then-” He picked up the single page in the biped’s basket, glanced at it again, and clucked his tongue. “Not correct! Not correct!” he said, stabbing a blunt finger against the page. “Here are mistakes, Fritz! So little work, and also so bad! And where … where are the carbon copies?”
   “No one said anything to me about any carbon copies,” the biped replied angrily. “As for the typewriting, I’ve told you, this animal’s body is unfamiliar to me. Let me see you type with somebody else’s fingers, and see if you do as well!” He felt a little dizzy, and went on shouting without caring much what happened. You can take your whole damned Zoo, for all I care, he said, shaking his fist in Griick’s face, “and slide down my-”
   The room was tilting absurdly to the left, walls, Griick, Wenzl, keeper, Emma and all. He clutched at the desk to stop it, but the desk treacherously sprang up and struck him a dull blow across the face. He heard Griick and the keeper shouting, and Emma’s voice piping in the background; then he lost interest and drifted away into grayness.

   “LIE still,” said a fretfully reassuring voice.
   The biped looked up and recognized the gigantic face of Prinzmetal, the surgeon. Prinzmetal’s large brown eyes were swimming over him; Prinzmetal’s soft mouth was twisted nervously.
   Shock and strain, said Prinzmetal over his shoulder. The biped could make out two or three other persons standing farther back in the room. He was lying, he now realized, on the cot in the back room of his cage. He felt curiously limp and weak.
   “It’s all right,” said Prinzmetal soothingly. “You lost consciousness a moment, that’s all. It could happen to any highly-strung creature. Lie still, Fritz, rest a little.” His face turned, receded.
   Griick’s voice asked a question. Prinzmetal replied, “Nothing - he will be as good as new tomorrow.” Feet shuffled on the concrete floor. The biped heard, more dimly: “It’s a good thing it isn’t something organic, Herr Doktor. What do we know about the internal constitution of these beasts, after all? Nothing whatever!”
   Wenzl’s voice spoke briefly and dryly. “When we get a chance to dissect one-”
   They were gone. The biped lay quietly, staring at the discolored ceiling. He heard the door close; then there was silence except for a faint, far-off strain of music from somewhere outside. No sound came from the inner office, or from Emma’s room next door.
   At length the biped got up. He relieved himself in the little bathroom, and drank some water. He realized that he was hungry.
   His tray was on the folding table near the bed. The biped sat down and ate the brownish-gray stew, then picked up one of the two round lumps of dry greenish stuff which lay at the side of the tray - the“bonbons” Griick had made so much of. The biped put the thing cautiously in his mouth, then paused incredulously. The lump, which was almost as dry to the tongue as its appearance suggested, had a subtle, delicious flavor which was utterly different from anything the biped had ever tasted before. It was not sweet, not salt, not bitter, not acid. His eyes closed involuntarily as he sucked at it, causing it to grow slowly moister and dissolve in his mouth.
   When it was gone he ate the other one, and then sat motionless, eyes still closed, savoring the wonder of this unexpected good thing that had happened to him. Tears welled in his eyes.
   How was it possible that even in his captivity, and his despair, there should be such joy?

   THE central building of the Berlin Zoo, built in 1971 by the architect Herbert Medius, was a delightful specimen of late 20th-century architecture but had several irremediable defects. For example, the garden-roof dining room, used on formal occasions by Griick and his staff, was roofed with a soaring transparent dome into which arcs of stained glass had been let, and at certain times of the year the long, varicolored streaks of light from this dome, instead of dripping diagonally down the lemonwood and ebony walls, lay directly on the diners’ tables and colored what was in their plates. The canvas curtains which were supposed to cover the dome’s interior had never worked properly and were now, as usual, awaiting repair. Consequently, although Herr Doktor Griick’s bauernwurst and mashed potatoes had the rich brown and white toneswith which they had come from the kitchen, Prinzmetal’s boeuf au jus was a dark ruby, as if it had been plucked raw from the bleeding carcass; Rausch’s plate was deep blue; and Wenzl’s was a pure, poisonous green. The visitors, of course, Umrath of Europa-News, Purser Bang of the Space Service and the trustee Neumann, had been placed in uncolored areas, except that a wedge of the red light that stained Prinzmetal’s place occasionally glinted upon Neumann’s elbow when he lifted his fork.
   Wenzl, as always, sat stiff and silent at his place.
   His sardonic eye missed nothing, neither the strained reluctance with which Rausch lifted his gobbets of blue meat to his lips, nor the exaggerated motion of Prinzmetal’s arm which lifted each forkful for an instant out of the sullen red light before he took it into his mouth. But Wenzl looked upon his dinner and found it green: he carved it methodically with his knife in his green hand, forked it up green and ate it green.
   Umrath, the Europa-News man, was square and redfaced, with shrewd little eyes and pale lashes. He said,“Not a bad dinner, this. Compliment the chef, Herr Doktor. If this is how you feed the animals down there, I must say they live well.”
   “Feed the animals!” cried Griick merrily. “Ha, ha, my dear Umrath! No, indeed, we have our separate kitchen for that, I assure you! To feed more than five hundred different species, some of them not even Terrestrial, that is no joke, you can believe me! Take for instance the Brecht’s Bipeds. Their food must be rich in sulfur and in beryllium salts. If we put that on the table here, you would soon be three sick gentlemen!”
   Wenzl would eat it and not turn a hair, said Neumann, the aging trustee. He was quiet and dark, with a weary but businesslike air about him.
   “Ha! True!” cried Griick. “Our Wenzl is made of cast iron! But the bipeds, gentlemen, not so. They are delicate! They require constant care!” “And money,” put in Neumann dryly, picking with his fork at the meat on his plate, which he had hardly touched.
   “It’s true,” said Griick soberly. “They are rarities, and they come from eighteen lightyears away. One doesn’t go eighteen lightyears for a picnic, eh, Purser Bang?”
   There was a rustling sound from the corner, which distracted the diners’ attention for a moment. Heads turned. Out of the dimness scuttled something small and many-legged, with skin of a sparkling pale blue. It turned upon them the jeweled flash of its tiny red eyes, then was gone into a hole in the wainscoting. The diners looked after it without comment.
   The spaceman nodded. He was tall and taciturn, lantern-jawed, and looked more like a doorkeeper than an intrepid adventurer. He cut precise cubes from the meat on his plate and chewed them thoroughly before swallowing.
   “Why spend so much for bipeds, then, Griick?” Umrath demanded. “They’re amusing, I suppose, in their way, but are they worth it?”
   “My dear Umrath,” said Griick, laying down his fork in turn, “I must tell you, the bipeds represent the dream of my life. Yes, I confess, it’s true that I dream! After all, we are alive to do something in the world, to achieve something! That is why, dear Umrath, I schemed and wrote lettersfor five years, and why I traded two Altairan altar birds and how much money to boot I had better not mention - ” he glanced at Neumann, who smiled faintly “- for our wonderful new biped Fritz. He is here, he is well, and he is a mature male. We already have our female biped Emma. No other zoo on Earth has more than one. Laugh at me if you will, but it shall be Griick, and his Berlin Zoo, who is remembered as the first man to breed bipeds in captivity!”
   “Some say it can’t be done,” put in Umrath.
   “Yes, I know it!” cried Griick gaily. “Never have bipeds been successfully bred in captivity, not even on Brecht’s Planet! And why not? Because until now no one has successfully reproduced the essential conditions of their natural environment!”
   “And those conditions are -?” asked Neumann with weary courtesy.
   “That we shall discover!” said Griick. “Trust me, gentlemen, I have made already a collection of writings about Brecht’s Planet and especially the bipeds. There is no larger one in the Galacticum, not even excepting the Berlin Archive!” He beamed. “And between ourselves, gentlemen, Purser Bang has a connection with a group on Brecht’s Planet who are able to make physiological studies of the bipeds! Depend on it, they will give us valuable information - by way of Purser Bang, our good friend!” He reached over and patted Bang’s sleeve affectionately. The spaceman half-smiled, blinked and went on eating.
   “Well then, here’s to the bipeds!” said Umrath, lifting his wineglass.
   Griick, Prinzmetal, Rausch and Bang drank; Neumann merely raised his glass and set it down again. Wenzl, coldly upright, went on methodically cutting and eating his green meat.
   “All the same,” said Neumann after a moment, “it seems to me that a good deal depends on Fritz.”

   V

   IN the morning of this eleventh day in the store, the young man climbed down as usual, very early, when the great vault was almost empty. Once or twice someone glanced at him curiously as he passed down the aisles, but he kept walking, and no one spoke to him. The clerks were busy behind the walls of glass cases, inserting new merchandise, clicking the metal doors open and shut; the cleaners in their graystriped uniforms were pushing their whining machines along the floor. Voices echoed lonesomely under the distant ceiling.
   The young man quenched his thirst at the drinking fountain between the grocery and the art gallery. Then he went into the produce section, with its mountains of fruit under glass, for his breakfast. By this time the outside^ doors had been opened, the music was playing, and people were beginning to stream down the aisles. The young man spent seventy pfennigs for a transparent bag of oranges and a package of bananas. Alternately eating the bananas and sucking the oranges, he wandered through the store. When he finished a piece of fruit, he tucked the peel neatly into the bag under his arm.
   Once, on the evening of his second day, the young man had ventured out into the avenue again, but the crowds, the noise and the lights had disturbed him and he had gone back into the store almost immediately, afraid he would be outside when it closed its doors. To be inside was much better. Here there was also noise, but it was of a different quality, not so alarming. The light i was even and cool, and did not hurt his eyes. And besides, in the ; store he found all he needed - food, drink, entertainment. Sometimes he became lost, the store was so large. But he could always find his way again by following the moving rocket-trails of light on the ceiling.
   Whenever he saw one of the blueuniformed men, he looked straight ahead until he was past. He had learned that the men in blue would not pursue him unless he climbed the grille or took something from a case without paying, and now he always made sure to pay. As for the grille, he climbed it every night, not being able to find any other way up. Twice more he had been noticed, and the men in blue had run and shouted, ringing their bells; but no one could climb after him. So he was not really very afraid of the blueuniformed men. But he did not like to be near them, all the same.
   There were still some discomforts in his new body that constantly worried him and occasionally even alarmed him by their intensity. There was something his mouth and throat wanted to do, for example. He kept trying different kinds of food and drink, and the feeling always went away, but it came back afterward. Dark, curly hair was sprouting all over his cheeks and chin, and it made his face itch. Nevertheless, he was getting along much better than he had at first. He had found out that taking his clothes and shoes off at night made them easier to bear the next day. When his underclothes had become dirty yesterday, he had bought new ones out of a machine, and he discovered now that the smooth, clean fabric was unexpectedly pleasant against his bald skin.
   Without watching where his feet were leading him, he had wandered into the women’s clothing section. In the middle of the central open space, a crowd had gathered around a platform. The young man went nearer. On the platform a perspiring darkskinned man was energetically looping a wide ribbon of violet cloth around a blonde young woman who stood passively, arms raised, and stared out into space.
   Both man and woman had the bright, unreal colors and the curious black outlines of the cinema he had seen on his first day, and he realized that this was another illusion. The man and woman were not really there.
   The cloth took shape, became a dress. The darkskinned man ran a piece of metal up the woman’s side, pinching out the cloth into a ridge and tightening the dress to her body. Then he did the same thing to the other side, touched the dress swiftly here and there, cut a slit halfway down the back and began to work the finished dress up over the woman’s head. Underneath, her body was shapely and cream-skinned in two brief garments of dark blue lace. Looking at her made the young man feel peculiar, and one of his discomforts suddenly became much more acute.

    [Картинка: img_0013.png] 

   THE young man did not like it.
   As he turned to work his way out of the crowd, he came face to face with a darkhaired, paleskinned young woman who first looked startled, then smiled happily.“Martin!” she said, taking his arm.
   The young man moved away nervously.“I don’t know you, madam,” he said.
   “What?” The woman’s face changed. The young man kept on moving away. She took a step after him. “Martin Naumchik-” Thoroughly alarmed, the young man turned and dived into the nearest hole in the crowd. He worked his way around the platform, turning his head frequently to see if he was being followed. Above him, the darkskinned man was turning the dress inside out. When he finished, he poised it over the young woman’s shoulders, then began to work it down over her body. Both seemed to revolve as he circled them. No matter how far around he got, he could never see their backs.
   The young man left the crowd cautiously on the opposite side, and looked around. The dark haired woman was not in sight. Nevertheless, he took a complicated route out of that part of the store, glancing back many times.
   Crossing the elevator plaza, he saw people looking at him, and realized he had been shaking his head unconsciously as he walked. The encounter with the darkhaired woman had taken him completely by surprise. It had somehow never occurred to him before that as a human being he now had not only a name and clothing, personal possessions and so on, but also friends and acquaintances. The idea frightened the young man. What could he possibly say to these people? What would they expect of him?
   The comfort and safety of his refuge in the store began to seem illusory. For a moment he thought wistfully of his clean, bare little cubicle in the Hamburg Zoo. But the memory was already so faded and distant that it could not occupy his attention long. The reality was this gigantic, glittering room with its unending murmur of voices, its exciting smells, its clicking elevators, its rocket-trails of red, green, amber, blue that traveled in pulses across the ceiling.
   The best thing might be to go away, change his name perhaps, find a place to live in some other city where he was not known. But he had no confidence that he could manage such a trip properly. Were there stores such as this in other cities than Berlin? He was humiliated to realize that he did not know. He had lived in Hamburg for twelve years, but had no idea what lay beyond the Zoo grounds. Other cities were only names to him.

   AN hour later, up in the third-floor lunchroom, he was still thinking about it over buns and coffee. It was his first experiment with coffee. The flavor was unexpected and rather unpleasant, but he liked its sweetness and warmth.
   It was odd how differently he felt about foods now that he was a human being. He had been going cautiously, since his bad experience of the first night in the restaurant. He had eaten only fruits and bread, and sometimes a sausage on a roll. But in time he expected to do all things human beings did, even to eating the wet brown messes he saw on his neighbors’ plates.
   He picked up his cup, experimentally flexed the muscles of his lips and drank. He was proud of this accomplishment, which had cost him much effort.
   The last few drops rattled noisily as they went in, and one or two people nearby glanced at him with raised eyebrows. Evidently this was not a sound that one made. He set down the cup in some embarrassment, and consulted his wristwatch: it was just eleven.
   He restrained himself from checking the time by his other wristwatch, which was in his pocket. He had observed that human beings did not wear two at once, perhaps because the watches were so accurate that no checking was required.
   A pattern of bright lights flashed for an instant on his section of the counter. He glanced upward automatically, as he had done the time before, and the time before that, and saw only a fading starflower of red sparks in the machine overhead. They dimmed and went out. A moment later they flashed on again, making him blink and jerk his head back. The bright chrome and glass ring of the revolving display case slowed, stopped. Directly in front of him, a square black hole appeared, and a transparency lighted up. The young man read, EMPTY PLATES, PLEASE. He pushed his empty cup and saucer, and the plate with the remnants of his buns, obediently into the hole, which closed-on it with a metallic snap. The transparency blinked, shimmered, and lighted up again: THANK YOU.
   With a warm feeling for the polite machine, the young man stood up and left the lunchroom. As he passed the entrance, where a crowd was waiting to get in, he found himself once more face to face with the same darkhaired young woman.
   She stared at him, apparently as shocked as he was. Neither moved for an instant. Then the young woman, without a word, raised her hand and slapped him in the face.
   The blow was so unexpected and painful that the young man was unable to move for a few moments longer, while the young woman turned and walked away People standing around wen staring at him; some where whis, pering to each other.
   No one had ever struck him before. With one hand to the curious numbness that was the pain in his cheek, the young man turned away.
   He spent the rest of the day wandering the store half-blindly, shivering a little. His pleasure in the bright colors and varied shapes around him was dimmed almost to extinction. He was waiting for it to be time for him to climb to his hideaway in the tower. Beyond that he did not think.

   EVENTUALLY it was eight teen-thirty. The crowds wen beginning to flow toward the exits. The young man moved across the elevator plaza, vaguely aware that the crowds were heavier and somehow more anxious than usual tonight. He passed a man with a camera, then another. Two in a row. He had sometimes amused himself by counting men with cameras, or fat woman, or crying children, but now he had no interest in games. There were a lot of uniforms in sight, too: not only the blue store police, but white uniforms, red ones, gold-and-white ones…
   He passed two blueuniformed men who were standing together, looking intently around them. One stepped forward, glancing at the young man, then at something he held in his hand.“One moment, sir.”
   The young man sidestepped, anxious not to be touched again.
   “Stop!” cried the store policeman, reaching.
   The young man whirled and ran for the grille. Bells were ringing on all sides; footsteps pounding after him. He sprang, caught the grille, began to climb.
   Halfway up, he glanced back. No one was climbing after him, but there was a great deal of activity at the base of the grille. Blueuniformed men were clustered around a bundle of something gray, unrolling it. There were others, in gleaming white uniforms, with feathers on their hats, but these were not doing anything, only standing with feet apart, staring up at him.
   He went on climbing. As he neared the top of the grille, two heads appeared over the edge, then a third.
   The young man paused. The three men wore blue uniform caps - they were store police, not merely the clerks who lived in this upper level. While he was wondering what to do, the three heads ducked out of sight, then reappeared. The shoulders and arms of the three men came into view. Something cloudy and gray seemed to float down toward him.
   The young man ducked, but it was too late. The cloudy thing settled around him with a solid thump, and he discovered that it was a net of grayish cord. It pulled tight around him when he attempted to swing away to the side. There were ropes attached to the net, and the men above were holding them.
   Panicked, the young man tried to climb down. The ropes held him back, then slackened a little; but when he paused to try to remove the net with one hand, they tightened again.
   Down below, two men in graystriped uniforms were pushing up a sort of tall ladder on wheels. The plaza was full of motionless people now, and the men in white were keeping them back.
   The ladder was in position almost directly under him, and now a white-uniformed man began to climb it.
   The young man saw that in another moment all his chances would be gone. Taking a deep breath, he swung himself violently away from the grille, tearing with both hands at the net that held him.
   The great room revolved massively around him. His back struck the grille hard, knocking the breath out of him. He kicked himself away again, still tearing wildly at the meshes of the net. The man on the ladder was very near. The net gave a little; he had found an edge. His head was out, then his shoulders.
   The grille struck him again. The man on the ladder leaned out and reached for him. Then he was falling.

   VI

   SPRAWLED on the couch in his room, the biped read:“The bipeds of the Great Northern Plateau, although the most interesting life-form on Brecht’s Planet, are a vanishing species. Their once numerous herds are no longer seen in the vicinity of the Earth settlements. Only scattered groups of three to five are occasionally met in the mountains andfoothills to the north. These animals, prior to the development of Brecht’s Planet by man, possessed a complex herd organization and communicated by vocal signals. Their mating ceremonies, held in the spring of the year, are said to have involved barbaric cruelties to the females.”
   He closed the book thoughtfully. That might account partly for Emma’s attitude, he supposed - if she had witnessed something of the kind before being captured and brought to Earth as an infant. However -
   He thumbed the book open at a different place.“The knob or crest,” he read, “appearing only as a vestige in the male, is a conspicuous purplish-red ovoid in the female. The function of the crest is unknown, but it is thought to be a secondary sexual characteristic. Erhardt (6) has suggested that it functions as an organ of display in theanimals’ natural state, but Zimmer (7) has pronounced it to be merely a hypertrophied pineal eye. The organ is vulnerable, as attested by the large number of older females who have lost it through accident or in conflict with other bipeds.”
   The biped closed the book again and tossed it irritably onto the floor. He was reading“Brecht’s Planet: Riddle of the Universe” for the second time, out of sheet boredom, since it was the only book he had in the back room: but the parts that were full of footnote references reminded him too much of the work he copied every day for Griick and the other staff members.
   In another two hours or so it would be closing time, and he could go into the living room without exposing himself to all those meaty red faces. This time he would remember to bring some reading matter into the back room, enough to last him a few days.
   Actually, there was nothing to stop him from going out there now… there were some magazines in the rack, he remembered, with bright covers. He could scoop them up and come straight back in. But he hesitated to make the move.
   It was extraordinary how hateful a row of human faces could be, staring in at you over an iron railing, with their great fat jaws moving as they chewed.
   He stood up restlessly. Hell and damnation! There was nothing to do here except read Brecht’s Planet again, and nothing to do in the office. His work was all cleaned up, and there was no point in trying to smuggle out another letter until he found out what had happened to the first one.
   Anxiety seized him again, and he began pacing back and forth.
   Surely nothing could have gone wrong?
   When the first batch of signed correspondence had come down from upstairs to be folded and sealed in envelopes, the biped had simply added his to the pile. Rudi, the pimply young keeper, had carried them out on his next trip. There was no reason to suppose that stamped, sealed letters were inspected by Griick or anyone. The keeper probably took them directly to the post box.
   But he had been waiting for a week. If Stein had received the letter, why hadn’t something happened before now?

   FROM Emma’s living room next door he heard a faint creak, a pause, another creak. Probably she had got up from her chair for something, then sat down again … all in full view of the crowd, naturally.
   That decided him. He looked at the open doorway, then stiffened himself and walked through it, looking straight ahead.
   The first moment was even worse than he had expected. The room was enormous and empty; the window was crowded with faces. He tried to shut them out of his awareness, looking only at the magazines, which now seemed much less attractive than he had remembered them. After a moment it began to be easier to go on than to turn back, but his mouth was still dry and his heart thumped painfully. Outside, there was a steady movement along the railing as people who had been staring at Emma came over to stare at him.
   Walking stiffly, the biped reached the relaxing chair and leaned past it to get the magazines. Be natural, he ordered himself. Pick up the magazines, turn…
   Outside the wall of glass, people were waving to attract his attention. There were cries of“Ah, just look!” and “Fritz, hello!” A blond child, carried on his father’s shoulder so as to see better, turned suddenly beet-red and began to cry. Several people were aiming cameras. Through the uproar, just as he turned away, the biped thought he heard his name called.
   He turned incredulously.
   In the front line of the crowd, wedged in between two fat matrons, was a mediumsized man in a gray surcoat with a wad of paper in his hand. His eyes, friendly and inquisitive, were looking straight into the biped’s. His mouth moved, and once more the biped thought he heard his name spoken, but the noise was so great that he could not be sure.
   The man in gray smiled slightly, raised his wad of paper, then wrote something on it with careful, firm motions. He held the paper up. On it was lettered,“ARE YOU NAUMCHIK?”
   The biped felt a rush of joy and gratitude that almost choked him. He fell against the glass, nodding vehemently and pointing to himself.“I am Naumchik!”! he shouted.
   The man in gray nodded reassuringly, folded up his paper and tucked it away. With a wave of his hand, he turned and began to struggle out of the crowd.
   “Fritz! Fritz!” yelled all the red faces.

   THE BIPED waited, pacing up and down, for twenty minutes by the big office clock, and still nothing happened. He knew he should control his impatience, that the gray man might be upstairs at this moment, arguing for his release; but it was no use, he had to do something or burst.
   He eyed the telephone. He had been forbidden to use it except for routine calls in connection with his work. But to the devil with that! The biped strode to the phone, swung out the listening unit. The call light began to pulse. After a moment the voice of the switchboard girl spoke faintly from the instrument:“Please?”
   “This is Martin Naumchik,” said the biped, feeling as he spoke that the words sounded subtly false. “I want to speak to Dr. Griick. Please connect me with him.”
   “Who did you say you are?” Martin -” the biped began, and swallowed. All right then, never mind, this is Fritz the biped. I want to speak-”
   “Why didn’t you say so in the first place? Is there anything wrong with the work?”
   “No, the work is finished. It’s something quite urgent, so if you will kindly-”
   “Is anything wrong in the cage?”
   “No, but I must speak to Griick. Look here, whatever your name is, kindly don’t argue and just let me speak to-”
   “My name is Fraiilein Muller,” her voice broke in coldly, “and I have instructions not to let the animals make personal telephone calls. So if there is no emergency, and nothing wrong with your work-”
   “I tell you it’s urgent!” howled the biped. With mounting fury, he went on shouting into the mouthpiece. “You idiotic woman, if you prevent me from speaking to Griick, there will be an accounting, I promise you! Make that connection at once, or - Hello? Do you hear me? Hello, Fraiilein Miiller, hello?”
   The empty hum of the line answered him.
   With shaking fingers, the biped closed the instrument and then yanked it open again. The call light pulsed, and went on pulsing.
   The female’s greenish, widejawed head was visible beyond her doorframe as the biped turned. “Well, what are you staring at?” he shouted. The head vanished.
   The biped sat down abruptly in his desk chair, kneading his threefingered hands nervously together. It was intolerable to be shut up like this now, just when his freedom was perhaps so near. If something was about to happen, the least they could do was to let him know, not leave him in the dark like this. After all, whose life was at stake? But that was always the way with these inflated bureaucrats, they couldn’t see past their own fat noses. Let the lower ranks wait and worry for nothing. What did they care?
   Oh, but just let him get out, and then! What an expose he would write! What a series! Shocking Inhumanity of Zoo Keepers! His nervousness, which had abated a little, increased again and he sprang to his feet. Let him once get out, that was all - just let him get out! The rest would not matter so much, even if he were condemned…
   He paused to listen. Yes, there came the sound again. The door was opening.

   THE biped ran to the passage, but it was not Griick or the man in gray, only Rudi with his little cart.
   “Oh, you,” said the biped, turning away dully.
   “Yes, me,” Rudi answered with spirit. “Who else should it be, I’d like to know? Who does all the hard work around here, and gets no thanks for it?” He pushed his cart into the office space, grumbling all the time, without looking at the biped. “Does Herr Doktor Griick feed the rhino, orthe thunderbirds? Who pokes the meat down the boa constrictor’s throat with a broomstick, Wenzl? Does Rausch swamp out the monkeys’ cages, or is it me? You bipeds are not so bad, at least you clean up after yourselves, but some of these beasts, you wouldn’t believe how filthy they are! They throw things on the floor, they let themselves go just where they feel like it … Well, that’s life. Some live on the fat of the land, and others have to work up to their elbows in monkey dirt.” With a scowl, he took a small object off his cart and threw it onto the nearest desk. “There’s some soap for you. You’re to clean yourself up and be interviewed, and the order is to hurry. So don’t be late, mind, or I’ll get the blame, not you.”
   The biped’s heart began pounding violently. “Did you say interviewed?” he stammered. “Who-what?”
   “Interviewed, is all I know. Some newspaperman wants to write a story about you. All lies, I dare say, but that’s his lookout.” Rudi was wheeling his cart around, still without glancing at the biped.
   There was a sound behind them, and the biped turned in time to see Emma come darting nervously out of her doorway.
   “Rudi, she piped. Oh, Rudi-please wait!”
   But the keeper had disappeared into the passage, and either did not hear or did not choose to turn back. After a moment came the sound of the outer door closing.
   Emma retreated toward her room as the biped turned, her hands going to her head in the familiar gesture. But she paused when she saw him reach for the small packet on the desk.
   “Is that soap?” she asked timidly. “I heard him say it was.”
   The biped picked up the small paper-wrapped oblong. It had a faint aromatic scent which was oddly disturbing.“Soap, yes,” he said abstractedly. “I’ve got to get cleaned up so that I can be interviewed.”
   “I had some once,” the female said, edging nearer. “It was a long time ago. They said it was bad for me.”
   “I suppose so,” the biped muttered, tearing at the paper with his blunt fingers. The paper ripped open, the soap shot out between his hands and clattered across the floor almost to Emma’s feet. She bent slowly and picked it up. The fragrance had grown almost overpoweringly strong.
   “Give it to me, will you?” the biped asked impatiently, walking nearer. He was at the scuffed chalk line that divided his side of the room from hers, but she took no notice. With the soap clutched in both hands, she was intently sniffing. Her mouth was half open, her eyes turned up.
   The biped took a step across the line. Still she did not respond.
   Alarmed, the biped halted and stared at her.“Emma!” he said.
   Her head turned.“Yes?” she said in a dreamy voice. “What’s the matter with you, Emma?” “Nothing matter,” she replied, with a vacuous grin. “Well then, give me the soap if you please” “Good soap,” she said, nodding, but she did not move to hand it over, and seemed almost unaware that she was still holding it close to her face.

   AT the point of crossing the line to take it from her, the biped hesitated. It suddenly struck him as rather odd that Rudi should have given him soap to wash with at all. He had not seen any in his week’s incarceration, and had not really missed it. Was soap good for this body, with its feathery spines? But if not, then why-?
   Shaking his head irritably, he moved backward, away from the fascinating smell that came from the thing Emma was holding. With that insistent odor in his nostrils it was hard to think connectedly.
   He concentrated. At last:“Why did they say soap was bad for you, Emma?” he demanded.
   “Bad for me,” she agreed, swaying as if to inaudible music. “Soap bad for Emma. No more soap, too bad. Beautiful soap.”
   As the biped stared at her silently, he heard the door opening again. His dulled brain began to work quickly once more.“Emma, listen to me,” he whispered. “Take your soap and go into your own room. Understand? Go into your own room. Don’t come out till I tell you!”
   Emma not come out. With exasperating slowness, she moved toward the door as Rudi came back in, this time without his cart.
   “Ready, are you?” he asked, with a glance at Emma’s disappearing figure.
   The biped turned to face him, trying to look as dreamy and distant as Emma had.“All ready,” he said slowly.
   “Know who you are, do you?”
   “My name is Naum-”
   “No, no,” Rudi interrupted, “don’t be stupid, your name is Fritz. Now say it after me. ‘My name is Fritz.’ ”
   “Name is Fritz,” said the biped agreeably. He kept his eyes rolled up, and swayed on his feet. His head was buzzing with angry surmise, but he kept his voice blurred and slow.
   “That’s all right, then,” Rudi said, satisfied. “How much is two and two, Fritz?”
   The biped pretended to consider the question at length.“Four?” he asked hesitantly.
   “Good fellow. Now how much is four and four and four and four?”
   The biped blinked slowly.“Four and four,” he said.
   Rudi smiled.“All right then, come along. You’re going upstairs to meet some nice gentlemen, Fritz, and if you behave yourself - mind, I said if! - I’ll give you something tasty all for yourself.” He took the biped’s arm.

   THEY rode up in the elevator, walked along the glass-walled corridor overlooking the Zoo grounds. It was a sunny late afternoon, and the gravel paths were full of strolling people. A few faces tilted to watch them, but there was not much excitement. They entered the main building, Rudi opened a door, and the biped found himself being ushered into the same oakpaneled office where he had been received on the first day. Beside the desk, Griick, Wenzl and the man in the gray surcoat were waiting.
   “Ha!” said Griick jovially, here is our Fritz at last. Now we shall see, my dear Tassen, how much truth there is in this fantastic story. We could have begun sooner, but our Fritz sometimes dirties himself, not so, Wenzl? Too bad, but what can one expect? So!” He rubbed his hands together. “Fritz, you are well?”
   “Very well, Herr Doktor,” said the biped.
   “Excellent! And you have eaten a good supper, Fritz?”
   “Yes, Herr Doktor.”
   Griick frowned slightly, glancing at Rudi, but in a moment collected himself and addressed the biped again:“Very good, Fritz. Now then, this gentleman is Herr Tassen of the Freie Presse. He will ask you some questions, and you will answer correctly. Understood? Then begin, Herr Tassen!” The man in the gray surcoat looked at the biped with a faintly uncertain expression. Well then, Fritz -” he began.
   The biped took a step forward, away from Rudi, and said quickly,“How long have you worked for the Freie Presse?”
   Tassen’s eyebrows went up. “A little over a year, why?”
   “Do you know Zellini, the rewrite man?”
   “How is this?” cried Griick, coming forward, redfaced with astonishment and anger. “Fritz, your manners! Remember-” “Yes, I know Zellini,” said the newsman. He was scribbling rapidly on his wad of paper.
   “A little dark man, nearly bald. I sat next to him at the last European Journalists’ Dinner. He-”
   “Wenzl!” shouted Griick. The biped felt himself seized by Rudi from behind, while Wenzl, his face a white mask, came toward him around the desk.
   “They are holding me against my will!” shouted the biped, struggling. “My name is Martin Naumchik! They tried to drug me before they brought me up here!”
   Griick and Tassen were shouting. Wenzl had seized the biped’s arm in one hand and was gripping his muzzle in the other, holding it closed. Between them, he and Rudi raised the biped off his feet and began carrying him out the door.
   “Outrageous!” Griick was trumpeting. “A trick!”
   The newsman, almost as redfaced as he, was shouting,“Bring him back at once!”
   The door swung closed, cutting off the din. Without bothering to set him on his feet, Wenzl and Rudi carried the now unresisting biped down the corridor toward the elevator.

   EMMA, it appeared, had not only been sniffing the soap all the time the biped had been gone but had eaten some as well. She was taken to the infirmary, unconscious, and remained there two days.
   Deliveries of work stopped. Rudi, the keeper, disappeared and his place was taken by a heavy slow man named Otto. No one else visited the cage.
   Exhausted and triumphant, the biped spent most of his time in the front room of the cage, sometimes reading or watching television, sometimes merely watching the crowds, to which he had slowly become accustomed. He hoped to see Tassen again, but the man did not reappear. On the day after the interview, however, a man outside took a folded newspaper from his surcoat and spread it out for the biped to see.
   He was just able to read the headline, REALLY HUMAN, ZOO BIPED CLAIMS. Then a guard snatched the newspaper away and led the man off, lecturing him severely.
   The biped would have given a day’s meals for that newspaper, but now at least he knew that Tassen had written the story and the city editor had printed it.
   Now he could wait. Once the truth was out, they would never be able to hush it up again, whatever they did. The biped schooled himself to patience. For a while he had toyed with the idea of lettering some messages on large pieces of cardboard and holding them up to the crowd. But he was afraid that if he did so he would be taken out of the front room, and then he could not watch for Tassen.
   On the third day, Emma was brought in after breakfast, looking feeble and wild-eyed, her spines draggled. She gave the biped a look as she passed which he could not interpret - wistfulness, a reproach, an appeal of some kind?
   He found himself worrying about it and wanting to talk to her, but she did not emerge from her rooms.
   A little later, the outer door opened again and Otto came in. He stood in the doorway and growled,“Wanted upstairs. An interview. Come.”
   The biped got to his feet, feeling his heart begin to pound. He asked wryly,“No soap this time?” But the keeper stared at him in brute incomprehension.
   This time, instead of going to Griick’s office they passed it and entered a smaller room on the opposite side ofthe corridor. The room was empty except for a table and two chairs.
   Otto held the door without comment, waited until the biped was inside, then went out again, closing the door.
   The biped looked around nervously, but there was nothing to see: only the three pieces of furniture, the scuffed black tiles of the floor and the mud-brown walls, which were dirty and in need of paint.
   After a long time, the door opened again and a large, oliveskinned man in a red surcoat appeared. Behind him the biped glimpsed the leviathan bulk of Griick, and heard his rich, fluting voice.
   “Of course, my dear Herr Opatescu, of course! We have always desired -”
   “Don’t think I am taken in by these games,” said the visitor furiously, pausing in the doorway. “If I had not threatened to go to the Council-”
   “You are mistaken, Herr Opatescu, I assure you! We only wished-”
   “I know what you wished,” said Opatescu with heavy sarcasm. “Go on, I’ve had enough of it.”

   GRIICK retired, looking chastened, and the visitor closed the door. He was carrying a pig skin briefcase, which he put down carefully on the table. Then, with a toothy smile, he advanced on the biped and shook his hand cordially.
   “We newsmen have to stick together when it comes to dealing with swine like that, he said. Allow me to introduce myself. My name is Opatescu. You have no idea the tricks they played to keep me out - but here I am! Now then, Herr Naumchik … one moment.” He busied himself with the briefcase, from which he produced a flat, clear crystic solid-state recorder and a microphone. “Here we are. Sit down, please - so.” He pushed the microphone toward the biped, adjusted the controls of the instrument and switched it on. The indicator began to crawl over the surface of the record block.
   Opatescu sat down opposite the biped, leaning forward on his arms, without bothering to remove his bulky surcoat.“This recording is being made in the Berlin Zoo, June seventeenth, 2002. Present are Martin Naumchik, otherwise known as the biped Fritz, and the reporter Opatescu.”
   He settled himself more comfortably and began again.“Now, Herr Naumchik - for I believe that you are in reality Martin Naumchik - I want you to tell me, if you will, in your own words just how your amazing experience took place. Begin then, if you please.”
   The biped did as he was asked willingly enough, although Opatescu was a type he did not like - glib, assertive, the sort of reporter you expected to find working on Central European scandal sheets. But since the man was on his side, and anyhow a recording was being made -
   Opatescu listened rather restlessly but without interruption until the biped had brought his story up to date. Then, with a thoroughness which made the biped wonder if his first estimate had not been mistaken, Opatescu took him over the story all over again, asking questions, eliciting more details, getting him to repeat certain points several times in different words. When he was satisfied with this, he began questioning the biped about his past life, and particularly about sources of evidence that he was actually Naumchik. They went over this ground with equal thoroughness. When Opatescu finally turned off the recorder and began to pack it away, the biped watched him with grudging respect.
   “I must tell you I’m grateful to you for all this,” he said. “I suppose you’re a friend of Tassen’s, the man who broke the story?”
   “Tassen, yes, I know Tassen,” said Opatescu, busily fastening his briefcase. “He’s written some follow-up yarns, good stuff, you’ll see when you get out.”
   The biped moistened his stiff lips.“I don’t suppose you have any idea-”
   “When that will be? Not long. You’re going to have a press conference, a big one this time - newspapers, sollies, TV. They can’t hold you after that. The public wouldn’t stand for it. Well, Naumchik, it’s been a pleasure.” He held out his meaty hand.
   “For me, too, Herr Opatescu. By the way, what paper did you say you were from?”
   “Pravda.” Opatescu glanced at his watch, then swung his briefcase off the table and turned to go.
   “Do you happen to know Kyrill Reshevsky, the-”
   “Yes, yes, but let’s reminisce some other time, shall we?” He smiled, showing large gleaming teeth. “I’ve got a deadline. You understand. Goodbye, Herr Naumchik-patience.” Still smiling, he backed out and closed the door.
   The keeper Otto appeared almost at once to take the biped back. Though usually laconic, he spoke lip on the way down to the cages.“So now they are going to let you out, are they?”
   “So it seems,” said the biped happily.
   “Well, well,” said Otto, shaking I his head. “What next?”

   FOR the next two days the biped could not read or sit still for more than a few minutes at a time. He kept the television turned on, and watched every hourly news broadcast. Once, early on the first day, a commentator mentioned his story, and a brief glimpse of him on film - evidently taken on the day of his arrival at the Zoo - was flashed on the screen. After that, there was nothing.
   In between news broadcasts, he spent most of his time pacing up and down the office space, imprisoning poor Emma, who no sooner put her head out of her room than the biped, by some gesture or exclamation, frightened her back in again. He gave the switchboard girl no rest, ringing , her up all day long and demanding to speak to Griick, to Prinzmetal, to anyone. On the afternoon of the second day the phone went dead. The line had been disconnected.
   Shortly afterward, Otto entered. He had a bundle of newspapers and magazines on his cart.“They send you these,” he said, dumping the bundle onto a vacant desk. Read, and don’t bother Fraiilein Muller. He turned and left.
   The biped forgot him at once.
   He snatched up the topmost paper - it was the Frankfurter Morgenblatt-and leafed through it with trembling fingers until he found a column headed, STRANGE STATEMENTS OF ZOO BIPED.
   He read the story avidly, although it was evidently nothing more than a rehash of his interview with Tassen. Then, curbing his impatience, he began sorting out the papers in the stack by date and piling them on the floor. When he got to the bottom of the stack, to his delight, he found a scrapbook and a pair of shears.
   Squatting on the floor - his old legs had never been so limber - he began carefully cutting out the stories about himself and pressing them onto the adhesive pages of the scrapbook. The culled papers he put aside for later reading.
   As he worked, he discovered that the biped stories fell into three classes. First, straight and rather unimaginative reporting, like that of the Frankfurter Morgenblatt; second, sympathetic pieces, appearing usually in the Sunday feature sections and with feminine by-lines (an item headlined TRAPPED IN AN ANIMAL’s BODY!, by Carla Ernsting, was typical of these); and finally, a trickle of heavily slanted stories and editorials, turning up in the later issues and in the newsmagazines. These he read with surprise and a growing fear. “Neurotic pseudohumanitarians,” said Heute in a boxed editorial, “seek to degrade humanity to the level of animals, and in so doing, strike at the very root of our civilization. Make no mistake: these sick minds would have us recognize as human every slimy polyp, every acid-breathing toad that can parrot a few phrases in German or walk through a simple maze. The self-styled Martin Naumchik, an upstart member of a vicious, degraded species …”
   The biped crumpled the paper in a burst of anger. Rising, he circled the piles of newspaper, glaring at them. Then he squatted again, smoothed out the offending page and read the editorial to the end.
   But he was too agitated to go on working. He closed the scrapbook and went into his front room to stare out at the gray autumn day. The sky had turned cold and rainy, and few people were on the paths.
   He could no longer ignore the fact that people did not want to believe a biped’s body could be inhabited by a human mind and soul. In a general way he could even sympathize with it. But surely they must see that this was a special, different case!
   He pressed his muzzle against the cold glass, down which scattered raindrops were slowly creeping.
   But what if they would not?
   He tried to imagine himself set free, recognized as Martin Naumchik, his rights as a citizen restored… What then? A grotesque vision of himself, a naked biped, in the city room of ParisSoir, talking to Ehrichs … then himself at a party, among fully dressed men and women with glasses in their hands.
   It was absurd, impossible. Where could he go? Who would accept him? Where could he get work, or even lodgings?
   The biped set his jaw stubbornly, gripping his threefingered hands together.“I am Martin Naumchik!” he muttered. But even in his own ears, the words sounded false.

   VII

   The biped woke himself up, tossing and muttering, from a peculiarly unpleasant dream. Something had happened to his body, his face had gone all soft and squashy, his limbs stiff… The horror of it was that everyone around him seemed to take this as entirely normal, and he could not tell then what was wrong.
   He came fully awake and sat up in bed, clanking his jaws and rumpling the feathery spines along his side with his fingers. He had been dreaming, he realized suddenly - dreaming of himself as he had been before the change.
   He sat for a moment, dully thinking about it. He felt a dim sense of betrayal, as if he had somehow foresworn his loyalty to that human body, once so familiar, which now seemed like an improbable nightmare. It disturbed him a little that his feelings could change so radically, in a matter of weeks. If that could happen, where was there a bottom to anything?
   He got out of bed, feeling his good spirits return with the healthy responses of his body. After all, there was no use looking backward. He was himself, as determined as ever, and - he stiffened with realization… how could he have forgotten? - this was the morning of his final accounting with Griick.
   Yawning nervously, he went into the living room and switched on the wall television. It was not time for the news yet. He glanced out the window, past the temporary fence, a dozen yards away, that the workmen had put up yesterday. The lawns and paths were empty in the early sunlight; there was a flutter of wings in one ofthe distant aviaries, then stillness again.
   Now that the time was so near, he was beginning to feel anxious. He had half expected Griick to try to drug him once more, and had slept every night with a barricade across the doorway; but except for the fence, which kept anyone from coming near the cage, nothing had been done to interfere with him. He dragged the table and bookcase out of the way and wandered into the office space.
   As he crossed the room, Emma’s face appeared in her doorway. “Good morning,” she said timidly.
   He turned on the television. It was not time for the news yet.
   As he entered the office area, Emma’s face appeared in her doorway. “Good morning,” she said timidly.
   “Good morning, Emma,” the biped answered, mildly surprised. His attention was not on her. He was thinking about the pressconference to come.
   The female ventured a step or two out of the doorway.“Today is Wednesday,” she observed.
   “That’s right, Wednesday.”
   “This is the day you are going to prove you are Herr Naumchik.”
   “Yes,” the biped said, surprised and pleased.
   “Then you will be going away.”
   “I suppose I will, yes.” What was the creature getting at?
   “I shall be all alone,” Emma said.
   “Well,” said the biped awkwardly, “I expect you’ll get used to it.”
   “I shall miss you,” Emma said. “Good-by, Fritz.”
   “Good-by.”
   She turned and went back into her room. The biped stared after her, touched and vaguely disturbed.
   From the living room sounded a chime, then a hearty voice,“Eight hundred hours, time for the news! Good morning, this is Reporter Walter Szaborni, at your service. Seven hundred are known dead in a Calcutta earthquake! Two members of the Council of Bavaria have been accused of improper conduct! These and other stories-”
   Hurrying into the living room, the biped picked up the control box that lay beside the chair and pressed the channel selector. In the wall screen, the ruddy-faced announcer vanished and was replaced by a beaming elderly lady, eccentrically dressed, who sat at the keyboard of a piano.“For my first selection this morning,” she announced in a heavy Slavic accent, I shall play Morgenstem’s ‘Dawn’ …” Click! She gave way to a muscular young man in a cream-colored leotard, who sat on the floor rotating himself on one buttock. “Just easily back, he said, and then forward -” Click!
   “… We bring you the latest development in a case that has all Berlin talking,” said an invisible voice.

    [Картинка: img_0014.png] 

   THE biped caught his breath: the screen showed a view of the Zoo grounds, moving at a walking pace toward the main building. With a curious shock, turning and looking out the window, past the incurious faces of a few people who stood at the railing, the biped realized what he was about to see. Out there in the early sunshine, walking slowly across the lawn, was a man with a tiny television camera.
   “… who claims to be Martin Naumchik, a reporter for ParisSoir,” the voice was saying. At the same moment, the outer door rattled. The biped vacillated a moment, then left the screen and hurried into the office space. It was the keeper with his cart.
   “Otto! Have you any message for me?”
   “No message. Eat,” said Otto, unloading trays from his cart.
   “But, is the press conference really going to be held? Is anyone here yet?”
   “Plenty of people,” Otto grunted. “All in good time. Eat.” He walked away.
   But eating was out of the question; the biped pushed the food around with his fork, took a bite or two, then gave it up and walked restlessly back and forth in his inner room until, after what seemed hours, the door opened and Otto returned.
   As he ran into the office space, the biped caught sight of Emma peering out of her doorway again. Ignoring her, he demanded,“Are they ready for me now?”
   “Yes. Come,” Otto said. The biped smoothed down his spines and followed.
   There were crowds outside the gallery, and in the corridors as well; the biped glimpsed Prinzmetal going by with a harried expression. Outside the penthouse dining room, there were men wearing earphones, crouching over metal boxes covered with switches and dials. A white-uniformed Berlin policeman stood guard by the entrance. Ignoring him, Otto opened the door and leaned in for a moment, blocking the way with his body. He spoke to someone inside, then closed the door again.“Wait,” he told the biped.
   After a few moments the door opened again and a pale, sweaty face appeared. It was a young man the biped had never seen before.“All right, bring it in. Quickly, quickly!”
   “Always in a hurry, aren’t you?” Otto grumbled. “Very well, go, then.” He gave the biped a push.
   Inside, the pale young man seized the biped’s arm. “Go straight in, don’t keep them waiting!” Beyond him, past the backs of several men who were standing close together, the biped glimpsed Griick’s rotund figure behind a table. “And now,” the Director’s voice said nervously, “I present to you the biped, Fritz!”
   The biped walked stiffly forward in the silence. The big room was packed with people, some standing with cameras, the rest seated at tables arranged in arcs all the way back to the far wall. Griick gave the biped an unreadable look as he approached.“Tell them your story, Fritz - or shall I say Herr Naumchik?” He bowed and stepped back, leaving the biped alone.
   The biped cleared his throat with an unintended squawk, which caused a ripple of laughter around the room. Frightened and angry, he leaned forward and gripped the edge of the table.
   “My name is Martin Naumchik,” he began in a loud voice. The room quieted almost at once as he spoke, and he could feel the listeners’ respectful attention. Gaining confidence, he told his story clearly and directly, beginning from the moment he had seen the young man with the camera outside his cage. As he talked, he looked around the room, hoping to see familiar faces, but the lights were so arranged that he could barely make out the features of those who were looking at him.
   When he finished, there was a moment’s silence, then a stir, and a forest of hands went up.
   “You, there,” said the biped, pointing helplessly at random. A woman rose. “Who told you to say all this?” she demanded. She had a sharp, indignant face, glittering eyes. A groan of protest went up around her.
   “No one,” said the biped firmly. “Next! You, there … yes, you, sir.”
   “You say you took a degree at the Sorbonne in 1999. Who was the head of the German department there?”
   “Herr Winkler,” the biped answered without hesitation, and pointed to another questioner.
   “Who was your superior on ParisSoir when you worked at the home office?”
   “Claude JLhrichs.”

   MOST of the questions were the same ones he had answered before, many of them several times, at previous interviews; repeating the same responses over again made him feel a trace of discouragement. When would there be an end? But the attitude of the listeners cheered him: they were respectfully attentive, even friendly.
   A tall, red-bearded man stood up.“Let me ask you this, Hen Naumchik. What is your explanation of this incredible thing? How do you account for it?”
   “I can’t account for it,” the biped said earnestly. “But I’m telling you the truth.”
   There was a murmur of sympathy as the tall man sat down. The biped opened his mouth to speak again, but before he could do so the mellifluous voice of Dr. Griick was heard.“That ends our little question period, thank you very much, gentlemen and ladies.” Griick came forward, followed by two keepers who quickly took the biped’s arms and started to lead him away.
   The biped, at first taken by surprise, began to resist.“I’m not finished!” he shouted. “I appeal to you, make them release me!” In spite of his struggles, the keepers were dragging him farther away from the table. “Make them release me! I am Martin Naumchik!”
   They were at the door. Behind them, an angry hum was arising from the audience. There were shouts of“Shame! Bring him back!” Over the growing uproar, Griick’s voice was vainly repeating, “One moment, ladies and gentlemen! I beg your indulgence! One moment! One moment!”
   The keepers thrust the biped outside; the door closed. The biped ceased to struggle.“Will you behave yourself?” demanded one of the keepers, straightening his collar.
   Otto appeared through the crowd, his face as stolid as ever.“Go on, if I want you I call you,” he grunted. “Fritz, come.”
   The biped followed him docilely, but his heart was thudding with excitement and indignation.“Did you hear it?” he demanded. “Did you hear how that man cut me off, just when-?”
   “Not me,” said Otto. “I don’t concern myself with such things. I was sitting down and having a smoke.” Avoiding the crowd, he pushed the biped toward a rear stairway. They walked down two flights, then crossed a library exhibit, threading their way between the tables and brushing through red banners that urged, “Read a book about animals!” This part of the building was almost deserted; so was the gallery.
   As soon as Otto unlocked the outer door, the biped heard Griick’s voice booming from within. His excitement increased again: he ran into the living room. In the television screen, Herr Doktor Griick’s red, perspiring face stared wildly. “Gentlemen and ladies, if I may have your kind attention! Gentlemen and ladies!”
   The voice of an invisible commentator cut in smoothly, The hall is still in an uproar. The Herr Doktor is unable to make himself heard.
   The biped danced with excitement in front of the screen, clasping his hands together. Outside, beyond the fence, a crowd was gathering, but he ignored it. The sound from the television had a curious echoing quality, and he realized after a moment that Emma must have her set turned on next door, too.
   The noise was subsiding. Griick shouted,“Gentlemen and ladies - you have heard the biped’s statement! Now permit the Director of the Zoo to make a statement also!”
   There were scattered cheers. Silence fell, broken at first by coughs and the shuffling of feet. When it was complete, Griick spoke again.
   “Let me ask you to think about one question, he said. Where is Martin Naumchik?”
   He glanced from side to side. The silence deepened.“Where is Naumchik, this enterprising newspaperman, who has scored such a triumph?” A mutter arose; the camera swung to show restless movement in the room, one or two people rising; indistinct voices were heard.
   “Is he wandering the streets of Berlin, with an animal’s soul inside his body?” Griick persisted.
   “Then why is he not seen? Isn’t this a curious question, gentlemen and ladies? Doesn’t this make you wonder, doesn’t it arouse your interest? I ask again, where is this famous Martin Naumchik? Is he hiding?” He stared out at the camera, eyes gleaming behind his rimless glasses.
   The biped clenched his fists involuntarily.
   “Suppose that I now tell you we are all the victims of a clever hoax?” Griick demanded. There were hisses, groans of protest from the audience. “You don’t believe it? You are too thoroughly convinced?”
   A deep voice echoed up from somewhere in the audience. After a moment the camera swung around: it was the tall, red-bearded man who had spoken before. His voice grew clearer.“… this farce. Why did you hurry the biped out of sight - why isn’t he here to speak for himself?” Cries of approval; the red-bearded man looked selfsatisfied, and folded his arms on his chest.
   Dr. Griick appeared again.“My dear Herr Wilenski - that is your name, is it not? - do you realize that if I am telling you the truth-” he carefully smote his plump breast - this biped is a very valuable animal, very high-strung and nervous, which must be protected? Am I to endanger his health? Do you think I am such a fool?” A little laughter; scattered shouts of approval.
   The red-bearded man popped into view again, aiming his finger sternly.“What about the biped’s charge that you drugged him? What have you to say to that?”
   Then Griick’s earnest face, in close-up: “Somehow the animal got hold of a piece of soap, Herr Wilenski. The keeper who was responsible has been-”
   (“Soap?” echoed Wilenski’s voice.)
   “Yes, soap. The sodium and potassium salts in soap have a toxic effect on these bipeds. You must remember that they are not human beings, Herr Wilenski.” He raised one plump hand. “Let me continue.” Mutterings from the audience. “But first let me say this to you, Herr Wilenski, and to allof you - if I shall not convince you that we have to do here with a hoax, a dirty publicity scheme - if you shall have listened to me and still believe that in that poor biped’s body there is the soul of a human being - then I solemnly promise you that I will release Martin Naumchik!”
   Sensation in the hall. The biped closed his eyes and groped weakly behind him for the chair. His relief was so great that he did not hear the next few words from the screen.
   “-we here at the Zoo were just as much in the dark as you, you may believe me! How could such a thing occur? We did not believe the biped’s story for a moment - yet, what other explanation could be found? We were at our wits’ end, gentlemen and ladies - until we had the lucky inspiration to search the biped’s cage! Then! Imagine our ( shock, our horror, when we found … this!”
   The camera drew back. Griick, half turning, was extending his hand in a dramatic gesture toward a machine that lay on a little table behind him. An assistant wheeled it closer. It was, as far as the biped could make out, nothing but a solid-state recorder, the same kind of machine Opatescu had used…
   A cold feeling took him in the chest. He leaned forward uneasily.
   “Under the blankets of the biped’s bed,” Griick’s voice went on, “we found this recording machine concealed!”
   “How did it get there?” boomed Wilenski’s voice.
   Griick’s face turned; his expresion was solemn. “We are still investigpting this, he said. And you may believe me, that when the guilty individuals are caught, they shall be punished with the full severity of the law! But at this moment, I can say only that we are highly interested in questioning thekeeper who was discharged. He stepped closer to the small table, laid his hand on the recorder. Now, I want you all to listen to what we found in this concealed machine! Listen carefully!”
   He switched on the recorder.
   After a moment, a man’s deep voice spoke. “Listen and repeat after me. My name is Martin Naumchik … I was born at Asnieres in 1976 …I am a newspaperman. I work for ParisSoir. My superior there is Monsieur Claude Ehrichs …”
   A distant murmur came through the glass. The biped turned his head involuntarily, and saw a little knot of people clostered around the aerial of a portable TV. Fists were being shaken. Voices drifted over, faintly:“Charlatan! Hoaxer!”
   With a sense of doom, the biped turned back to the screen. The camera was panning now over the faces of the listeners. He saw shock and surprise give way to cynical understanding, disgust or anger. People were beginning to stand up here and there throughout the room; some were leaving. The biped saw the red-bearded man, shaking his head, move off toward the aisle.
   “Wait! Wait!” he called. But the man in the screen did not hear.
   The room was emptying. The monotonous voice of the recorder had stopped. Griick was standing idly looking out over the room, with a faint smile of satisfaction on his lips. Wenzl leaned over to speak to him; Griick nodded absently. His lips pursed: he was whistling.
   And so, said the voice of the announcer breathlessly, in this dramatic revelation, the mystery of the human biped is explained! All honor to Herr Doktor Griick for his dignified handling of this difficult situation! We now return you to our studios.
   The screen flickered, cleared. The biped hit the control button blindly with his fist; the image faded, dwindled and was gone.
   “Ssss! Fritz the faker! Ssss!” came the voices from outside.

    [Картинка: img_0015.png] 

   THE uproar in the Aviary redoubled the moment Wenzl strode in. Toucans opened their gigantic beaks, Rapped their wings and screamed. The air was full of fluttering smaller birds, flash of tail feathers, red, yellow, blue. Macaws left off hitching themselves along their wooden perches, beak, claw, beak, claw, to flutter against the invisible air fence shrieking,“Rape! Rape!” Wenzl strode past them, his death’s-head face like a pale shark swimming down the green corridor of the Aviary.
   At the far end of the building, two under-keepers stood to attention. All was in order here. Wenzl crossed the short open entranceway, making a path through the sluggish crowds, and went into the Primate House.
   Shrieks, roars and the thunder of shaken bars greeted him as he stepped through the doorway. Capuchins hurtled forward over one another’s backs, clustering at the bars, showing their sharp yellow teeth, shrieking their little lungs out. Proboscis monkeys dropped out of their tree-limb perches, blinking and chattering. The baboon, Hugo, leaped against his bars with a crash, shoved off and somersaulted in midair, flashing his bluebehind; the two chimps rattled the bars and squealed together.
   Wenzl moved along the row of cages, attentive and calm. He passed through another open en trance to the Reptile House.
   Here all was quiet. Wenzl’s glance softened for the first time The Galapagos tortoise, big as wheelbarrow, was slowly munching a head of lettuce in his cruel jaws. The boa constrictor was coiled sluggishly around a conspicuous lump in its gullet. Foul diamondbacks hissed, clattered faintly, slithered off into their rocky den.
   In its floodlighted cage, the grass snake hung in graceful festoons. Its tiny head swayed toward Wenzl; the pink tongue flickered out. Wenzl paused an instant to regard it with pleasure. Then he moved on.
   In the Terrestrial Mammal House, there was a crowd around the rhinoceros wallow, where Prinzmetal was giving the rhino an injection. Finished, he climbed over the rail and joined Wenzl, mopping his brow with a tissue.
   “Successful?” Wenzl demanded.
   “Oh, yes, I think so,” said Prinzmetal in his soft, unassuming voice. He will be all right.
   “It is necessary for him to be all right.”
   “Oh, well, he will be.” They walked through the exit together, turned right, opened a door marked “No Admittance.”
   A slender, flaxen-haired young keeper was hurrying toward them, carrying a pail of fish.
   “Schildt, why are you not feeding the sea lions?” Wenzl demanded severely.
   “Just going now, sir!” said the unfortunate keeper, stiffening to attention.
   “Then what are you waiting for? Go!”
   “Yes, sir!”
   Wenzl, as he strode along beside Prinzmetal, took a tiny notebook from his breast pocket and with a tiny silver pencil, sharp as a bodkin, made a minuscule entry in it. Prinzmetal watched him with one soft brown eye, but made no comment.
   “Have you seen the papers?” Prinzmetal asked, as they rode up in the elevator.
   “Yes,” said Wenzl. They got out. Wenzl hesitated, then followed Prinzmetal into the latter’s washroom.
   “What papers did you mean, exactly?” he asked.
   Prinzmetal, looking surprised, straightened up from the basin where he had begun washing his hands.“Oh - there it is, on the table. The Zeitung. On the third page. There’s a story about a baby in Buenos Aires that understands what you say to it in French, Spanish and German. Three months old.”
   “Yes.”
   “And the curious thing-what struck my attention-”
   “Is that child’s French nurse maid underwent an attack of amentia at the same time,” said Wenzl, biting his words.
   “Yes,” Prinzmetal said, forgetting to wash.
   “She is incontinent,” said Wenzl.
   “Yes.”
   “She understands nothing, must be fed, can only make childish sounds. But the child understands French, German and Spanish.”
   “So, you saw the paper,” said Prinzmetal.
   “And you, did you see this in the Tageblatt?” Wenzl asked, almost unwillingly. He took a folded newspaper from his breast pocket. “A man and his wife in Tasmania each claims to be the other.”
   “I heard also, on the television, that while laying a cornerstone in Aberdeen, the mayor changed into a naked young girl, who ran away crying,” said Prinzmetal “But who knows what those fellows make up and what is true?”
   “Supposing it should all be true?” Wenzl asked, folding his paper neatly and putting it away.
   “It would be interesting,” said Prinzmetal, turning his attention to his soft, hairy hands, which he began to scrub with care.
   “And?”
   “It is our duty to report to the Director anything that might he of importance to the work of the Zoo,” said Prinzmetal, as if reciting a lesson.
   “On the other hand,” said Wenzl deliberately, “It is useless, and even has a harmful effect, to take up the Herr Doktor’s time with baseless newspaper scandal.”
   The two men looked at each other for a moment with complete understanding in their eyes.“After all,” said Prinzmetal, drying his hands, “what would be the good of it?”
   “Exactly,” said Wenzl, and folding his newspaper precisely lengthwise, he dropped it into the waste can.

   VIII

   WHEN the young man woke up, he was in a narrow bed in a white-tiled room. Wires that came out of the bed were stuck to his head, arms and legs with sticky elastic bands. He plucked at them irritably, but they would not come off.
   He looked around. There was a doorway, open, but no window. In the corner, behind a single wall that half concealed it, was a W.C. In the other corner was a flimsy plastic chair and a reading light, but nothing to read.
   The young man tried to get up, pulling at the wires, and discovered they had silvery joints that would break apart. He got out of bed, trailing the wires.
   After a moment a stout woman in nurse’s uniform came in, and clucked her tongue at him. “Up, are you? Who told you you could?”
   “I want to use the W.C.,” he told her plaintively.
   “Well, go ahead, then back into bed with you. Herr Doktor Holderlein hasn’t seen you yet.” To his mild surprise, she stood with hands folded in front of her and watched while he used the toilet. Then she pushed him back and made him lie down, while she snicked the silvery joints of the wires together again, all around the bed. “Lie still,” she told him. “No more nonsense. Here is the bell - ring if you want anything.”
   She showed him a plastic knob on the end of a flex cord, and went away,“Am I sick?” he called after her, but she did not come back.
   The young man tried once more to pull off the elastic bands, then gave it up. His last memories were confused. He could remember falling into the net, and being held down while he struggled. Then a feeling of being carried, a glimpse of many legs walking.… Then nothing, until he found himself in a whitewalled tiny room with bars instead of a door. His clothes were gone, and he was wearing gray pajamas. No one had come in answer to his calling, until he began to bang on the bars with a steel pot he found in the room, and then a man came and squirted water on him from a spray-gun. So he did not bang any more, but sat and shivered.
   He remembered falling asleep and waking up at least twice in that room. Once he had been fed. Then two men had come to fetch him, and they had given him his own clothes again, and coffee to drink, which he liked. Then they had taken him down a long corridor into a crowded room, and told him to wait. At the end of the room, behind a high counter, was a man in red robes, with a red floppy hat. The young man knew from his watching of television that this man was a judge, and that he was going to be sentenced…
   Now, here he was in still another place. Time passed. The young man was growing hungry, but did not dare ring the bell. At last an orderly came in with a cart, and he was allowed to sit up and eat. It was almost like the Zoo. Then the orderly came back for his plate, and hooked him up to the wires again; and for a long time nothing else happened.
   The young man was bewildered. Why was he here? What had the judge and that other man been whispering about, down at the end of the room, and why had the judge looked so annoyed when he glanced his way?
   This place was better than the jail, it would not do to complain -but if he was not sick, then why was he here?
   Bells tinkled outside. Every now and then people passed his doorway, walking rapidly, with soft soles that swished and squeaked on the tile floor.
   Then the nurse came in again.“You are in luck,” she told him. “Herr Doktor Holderlein says you may see Herr Doktor Boehmer today.” She yanked his wires apart briskly, then helped him up. “Come, don’t keep the doctor waiting!”

   SHE took his elbow and led him down the hall, where messages in colored letters rippled silently along the walls, to an office where a man with a bushy mustache sat behind a desk. On the desk was a card that said Hr. Dr. Boehmer.
   The doctor gave the young man a long measuring look, and unscrewed a thick old-fashioned tacrograph slowly.“Sit down, please.” He began writing on a pad. “Now then. Can you tell me your name?”
   The young man hesitated only a moment. If he said Fritz, he knew very well they would send him back to the Zoo.“Martin Naumchik, Herr Doktor, he said.
   “Occupation?”
   “Journalist.”
   The doctor nodded slowly, writing.“And your address?”
   “Gastnerstrasse.”
   “And the number?”
   The young man tried to remember, but could not.
   Doktor Boehmer pursed his heavy lips.“You seem a little confused. How long is it since you were in your apartment in Gastnerstrasse?”
   The young man shifted uncomfortably.“I think, three-or, no, four days.”
   “You really don’t remember.” Doktor Boehmer wrote something slowly, in his thick black handwriting, across the ruled pad. The young man watched him with apprehension.
   “Well then, perhaps you can tell me the date?”
   “June 10th, Herr Doktor … or perhaps the 11th.”
   Boehmer’s bushy eyebrows went up a trifle. “Very good. And who is the president of the High Council, can you tell me that?”
   “Herr Professor Onderdonck … is that right?”
   “No, not quite right. He was president last year.” Bohmer wrote something else slowly on the pad. “Well now.” He folded his heavy arms across the pad, holding the big black tacrograph as if it were a cigar. “Tell me, do you remember being in the department store?”
   “Oh, yes, Herr Doktor.”
   “And hiding upstairs, and coming down during the day?”
   “Yes, Herr Doktor.”
   “And why did you do that?” The young man hesitated, opening and closing his mouth several times.
   “You can tell me, Herr Naumchik. Go ahead. Why did you do it?”
   The young man said helplessly,“Because I had nowhere else to go, Herr Doktor.”
   Boehmer slowly unfolded his arms and made another mark on the pad. He reached without looking and touched a bell-push at the corner of his desk.“I see. Well then, Herr Naumchik, tomorrow at the same time, is it agreed?”
   “Yes, Herr Doktor.” The nurse entered and stood holding the door open. The young man rose docilely and went out.
   “Doctor says you can sleep without the wires tonight,” said the nurse briskly as they entered his room again. Breathing heavily through her nose, she stood close to him and began peeling off the elastic bands. “Don’t squirm,” she said.
   “It hurts.”
   “Nonsense, this takes only a moment. There.” She wadded up the bands, wrapped the wires around them and turned to leave. “Lie down now, rest.”
   “But nurse, why do I have to be here? Am I sick?” the young man asked.
   She turned and stared at him briefly.“Of course, you are sick. But you are getting much better. Now rest.” She waddled out.

   AFTER a long time there was supper, and then pills to swallow. When he woke up, it was morning again.
   “Good news!” cried the nurse, entering to plump up his pillows. “You have a visitor today!”
   “I have?” the young man asked. His heart began to beat faster. He could not imagine who it could be. Someone from the Zoo?
   “A young lady,” said the nurse archly.
   “What’s her name? I don’t know any young lady.”
   “All in good time. Eat your breakfast now, then comes the barber to shave you, and next you will see your friend.”
   She left. The young man rubbed at the furry growth on his cheeks and chin. Shaving he knew, but not how it was done. It would be good to be shaved.
   After breakfast the barber came in, a short, dark man in a white coat, who plugged a buzzing machine into the wall and applied it, with a bored expression, to the young man’s whiskers. At first it pulled and hurt him, then it was better, and at last the hair was all gone. His skin stopped itching and felt delightfully smooth to the touch.
   He waited impatiently. An orderly came and gave him a comb, and he combed his hair in the mirror, several ways, until he thought it was correct.
   Then he still had to wait. At last the nurse came in again, looked at him critically, and said,“Very good! Follow me!”
   She took him to a little room with windows, rather bare and clean, with upholstered chairs and magazines in a rack. In the room stood a woman in a blue dress. There was a man in a white coat a little behind her. Glancing from one to the other, the young man recognized Herr Doktor Boehmer almost at once, but it was only when the woman stepped forward that he knew her. She was the woman in the store-the one who had slapped him.
   “Oh, my poor Martin, what has happened to you?” she wailed, putting out her arms.
   The young man stepped back nervously.“They say I am sick,” he muttered, watching her closely.
   “You identify our young friend, then, Frau Schorr?” asked the doctor amiably.
   “He doesn’t remember me,” she said in a tight voice. “But it’s Martin, of course it’s Martin.”
   “And you are his-”
   The woman bit her lip.“His sister. Will they let me take him away, Herr Doktor, do you think?”
   “That depends on many things, Frau Schorr,” said the doctor severely. Come into my office when you are finished, and let us discuss it in detail.
   “Yes, in a moment,” she said, turning back to the young man. “Martin, you would like to go with me?”
   He hesitated. It was true that she did not seem so excitable as before, but who knew when the mood might not take her again?
   “To get away from this place?” she asked.
   The young man made up his mind.“Yes, please, I would like it.”
   She smiled at him and turned to the doctor.“Very good, Herr Doktor, now I am at your service. Until very soon, Martin …” They both went out. In a few moments the nurse came to lead him back to his cubicle.
   Then, although the young man waited expectantly, nothing happened except lunch. After the meal was cleared away he waited again, growing indignant, but hours went by and still no one came.
   The orderly brought his dinner. He began to feel frightened. Suppose something had gone wrong, and the woman was never coming back at all?
   The nurse would not answer his questions, but kept repeating stupid things like,“Wait and see. Don’t be so impatient. Why are you in such a hurry?” She gave him pills to take, and insisted on hooking him up to the wires again. Then he woke up, and again it was morning.
   “Good news!” cried the nurse cheerily, entering the room. “They are going to release you today!”

   “THEY are?” the young man asked eagerly. He tried to clamber out of bed, but was brought up short. “Devil take them!” he shouted, tearing at the wires. “Nurse, get me my clothes!”
   “Temper, temper!” she said, raising her hands in mock dismay. “Can’t you wait even till after breakfast? Such impatience!” She disconnected the wires at the joints and tucked them neatly away. “Nothing was ever done in a hurry,” she went on. “There, go, wash yourself. All in good time.” She bustled out.
   The young man cleaned himself and combed his hair again. It was hard to sit still. Breakfast came and he ate Some of it, thinking,“Now she is almost here.”
   But more hours passed in the same endless way as before. What could have gone wrong? He stood in the doorway and waited for the nurse; at last she came.
   He held out his hand.“Nurse, when are they going to let me out?”
   “Soon, soon,” she said, slipping past him. “Go and comb your hair-don’t worry. It won’t be long.”
   “But you said that this morning!” the young man shouted after her. It was no use. She was gone.
   When he had been sitting for a long time, staring blankly at the floor, an orderly came in.“Your hair is a fright,” he said. The orderly himself had carefully waved hair, gleaming with oil. “Here, use my comb,” he said.
   “When are they going to let me go?”
   “I don’t know. Soon,” the orderly said indifferently, and went away.
   Lunch time came. Now the young man realized that it was all a cruel joke. He lay down on the bed, leaving his dishes untouched.
   There was a clatter at the door. The orderly entered, pushing a metal rack on which some clothes were hung. Watching incredulously, the young man recognized the trousers and surcoat he had been wearing before; the coat was ripped up the side, and the sleeve was grimy with some sticky, odorous mass.
   “Put them on,” said the orderly. “Orders.” He went away again The young man dressed himself awkwardly. His heart was beating very fast, and he has trouble deciding which way some of the things went on. At last it was done, and he combed his hair carefully all over again.
   Then he waited. Footstep came and went hurriedly in the corridor; white-jacketed figure passed and repassed. A bell jangled, and a boy in a purple rob went by carrying a candle in glass bowl, followed by a man in black robes, head down, mumbling something to himself. The bell dwindled in the distance.
   A burst of laughter sounds from somewhere not far away“Well, you know what I would have told him!” a hearty male voice exclaimed. Then two voice began speaking together, in lower tones, and the young man could not make out any more of the words.
   Footsteps approached the door again. In walked a woman.

    [Картинка: img_0016.png] 

   AT FIRST he did not recognize her as Frau Schorr. She was more formally dressed than the day before, in a puffed skirt and overdress under which the shape of her body could hardly be made out. She looked pale and nervous and did not meet his eyes.
   “Martin, they promised they would release you at nine-thirty this morning,” she said at once, “and here it is almost-”
   “Madame Schorr,” the orderly interrupted, putting his head in at the door, “they are blinking for you to come down to the office at once.”
   “Oh, my God!” said the woman and, turning around, she walked out again.
   The young man waited. At last Frau Schorr entered, walking rapidly. This time she looked flushed and energetic.“Come, quickly, she said, taking his arm, before they change their minds.”
   “I can go?” he asked.
   “Yes, it is all arranged. Hurry!”
   She led him down the white hall, past the blinking colored letters on the wall. There were potted plants at every intersection of corridors - always the same plant, with shiny saw-toothed leaves.
   They got into a rapid elevator of the kind the young man had seen in the store. It opened for them, clicked shut and with a dizzy swoop they were hurtling downward; then another swoop in the reverse direction, a click, and they were standing on the gray tile floor of a large lobby, with enormous windows of clear glass through which the young man could see the central tower of the Flugbahn, glittering in the sunlight against a sky of pure blue.
   “Hurry!” said the woman, lead him to another elevator. This one was the spiral kind. They dropped through a glass tube, past dark walls at first, then, startlingly, into the daylight.
   What had happened to the building? The young man craned his neck, saw the titanic slab of masonry receding above his head. They had emerged from the bottom of the hospital, which was supported high in the air on concrete legs. Around them bright green lawns and flowering shrubs were visible. Only one other building could be seen in the middle distance, and that was a single, carelessly carved block of pink stone, without windows or visible entrances. Beyond, the rooftops of a few buildings showed over the treetops.
   The elevator went underground without pausing, and a moment later they were in the white, flat light of a subterranean tunnel. As they left the elevator, an oval car drifted up on two fat wheels. It stopped, and the transparent top swung open. There was no driver The young man hung back, but Frau Schorr urged him in. They sat down on the deep cushions; the top hesitated, then slowly dropped and latched with a click. The woman leaned forward.“Take us to the Fiedler platz exit, please.”
   After a pause, a mechanical voice spoke from the grille facing them.“That will be two marks ten, please.” The woman fumbled in her purse, found a piece of paper money and put it into a slot beside the grille. “Thank you,” said the voice; coins clattered into a metal cup. The woman picked them out carefully and put them away as the car glided into motion.
   They did not seem to be moving fast, but the young man felt himself pressed back into the cushions, and the white lights of the tunnel whisked by at a dizzying rate.
   Other cars were visible far ahead and behind. Now the tunnel forked, the left-hand branch turning downward, the righthand one up. Their car whirled to the left without losing speed. At a second fork, they turned right, rising again.
   The car glided to a stop beside an elevator, identical to the one they had taken from the hospital. The top swung back.
   A little dizzy from so much rapid motion, the young man followed the woman into the elevator. As the car rose in the tube, another car with two men and a child in it whirled down past them in the counter-spiral. It made the young man feel ill to watch them, and he shut his eyes.

   NOW they were aboveground once more. The street was full of cool blue shadow, but over their heads the sun was still warm on the facades. Taking his arm again, the woman led him across the empty pavement to one of the entrances, over which the young man read the number“109” in silver letters.
   In the lobby, she paused, one gloved hand going to her mouth.“You have your key?” she asked.
   “Key?” The young man explored his pockets, brought up the key on the gold ring. “Is this it?”
   She took it with relief.“Yes, I’m quite sure. Come.”
   They entered another elevator, an ordinary straight-up one this time, and the woman spoke to the grille,“Three.”
   They emerged into a narrow hallway carpeted in beige and green. Frau Schorr led the way directly to a door numbered 3C, opened it with the key.
   Inside, they found themselves in greenish dimness.
   The room was small, with a narrow bed, a table with some coffee things, a typewriter on a desk. There was no dust, but the air had a stale, bottled-up smell.
   The woman crossed to the windows and threw back the green draperies, letting in the sunlight. She touched a button on the control panel over the bed, and at once fresh air began to whisper into the room.
   “Well, here you are then!” said the woman happily. “Your own little room again …” She paused. “But you don’t remember this, either?”
   The young man was looking around. He had never seen the room before, and did not much care for it.“Isn’t there any television?” he asked.
   The woman studied him for a moment, then went to the control panel again, touched another button. A picture on the wall opened and folded back, revealing a TV screen, which instantly bloomed into life. A man’s smiling face loomed toward them, gigantic, all-swallowing, while laughter roared from the wall. Then the sound died, the open-mouthed face shrank and disappeared as the woman touched the controls again.
   The halves of the picture jerked, flapped, slid together.
   “What’s the matter?” asked the woman.
   “I didn’t know it was going to do that,” said the young man, quivering.
   She looked at him thoughtfully. I see. She put the tips of her gloved fingers to her lips.“Martin, you know this is your own room. It doesn’t remind you at all? I thought perhaps when you saw it—no. I think it’s better that you don’t stay here, Martin, Come, help me.”
   She crossed briskly to the opposite wall, slid back a panel, took out two pieces of luggage. She laid them open on the bed, then crossed the room again, pulled a drawer out of the wall, scooped up a pile of clothing.“Here, take these.” She dumped the clothing into his arms. “You put everything on the bed, I’ll pack.”
   “But where are we going?” he asked, carrying his burden obediently across the room.
   “To my apartment,” she said. She picked up the clothes, straightened them neatly, began to pack them into the larger of the two suitcases. “Go, get more.”

   THE YOUNG man went back, found another drawer under the first. There were nothing but socks in this one. He brought dutifully over to the bed.
   “And if Frau Biefleder doesn’t like it, let her choke!” said the woman, punching shirts down into the open suitcase with brisk, angry motions.
   Understanding nothing, the young man did as he was told. All the clothing, including two sets of overgarments, went into the larger suitcase. The other case, which was very flat and narrow, was filled with papers from the desk. Frau Schorr took both suitcases, and the young man carried the typewriter in its case. They went down again in the elevator, across the street, down the other elevator, and got into a cab exactly like the one that had brought them.
   This time they emerged into a more populous street. Carrying their suitcases, they crossed the open area past a group of strolling girls, a tall boy on a unicycle, a flower vendor.
   There were shops on either side, with interesting things displayed in their windows, but Frau Schorr would not let him linger. They turned the first corner to the left, entered a building faced with blue stone. In the lobby sat a little white-haired old lady with a face full of wrinkles.“Good afternoon, Frau Beifelder,” said Frau Schorr stiffly. The old woman did not reply, but stared after them with tiny, redrimmed eyes.
   “It’s good for her to be shocked a little, after all,” muttered Frau Schorr as they crowded into the elevator. She looked distressed. The young man would have liked to comfort her, but did not understand what was the matter, so he said nothing.
   Upstairs, the hall was tiny, with only two red-enameled doors.“Well, here we are at last!” said the woman brightly, opening the first of these.
   Inside was a sunny and comfortable-looking room, with bright colors in the upholstery and rugs. As they entered, a tawny cat leaped down from the window seat and came toward them, pale blue eyes staring from a masked face.
   The young man looked at it in surprise. He had never seen a housecat before, except in pictures-only the big ones in the Zoo, and those from a distance.
   “Is it fierce?” he asked.
   “Maggie?” said the woman, looking puzzled. “Whatever do you mean?” She stooped to pick up the cat, which was staring at the young man with its back arched, making a low wailing noise. When she lifted it, it hung limply from her hand for a moment like a furpiece, then writhed once and leapedto the floor.
   The wailing sound grew louder. The fur along the cat’s back was ruffled.
   “Oh, dear!” said the woman. “Maggie, don’t you remember Martin?” She turned to him in bewilderment. She is upset. “Sit down, dear, everything is going to be all right. Take off your surcoat and rest a little. You shall have some coffee and sandwiches in a moment.” The cat was advancing, stiff-legged; she pushed it away with her foot. With an angry screech, it retreated to the windowseat again and tucked itself together into a ball. Its blue eyes grew narrow, but whenever the young man moved they widened and its mouth opened in a sharp-toothed smile.
   “I can’t imagine what is the matter with her,” said Frau Schorr from the next room. A cupboard door banged shut; a pot clattered. “She is such an affectionate creature, and she always liked you, Martin.”
   Wanting to examine a picture on the opposite wall, the young man took one or two steps toward it, watching the cat out of the corner of his eye.
   The animal stared back at him and made a faint hissing noise, but did not move. Emboldened, the young man crossed the room and looked at the picture closely, but still could not decide what it represented.

   APALLED, he turned away, just as something squat and dirty-white waddled into view from the hall doorway. It looked up at him out of tiny red eyes and made a wheezing sound. Spittle hung from the loose lips of its enormously wide mouth, and two discolored fangs stuck up from the lower jaw. It stared at the young man in astonishment for a moment, then the gray-white hair on its shoulders rose stiffly and it made a menacing noise. The young man raised a hand. The animal began to bark, dancing about in the doorway, its eyes bulging insanely to show the yellowish, bloodshot whites.
   The young man backed away as far as he could go.
   “Churchill!” called the woman from the kitchen. The dog turned its head toward her voice, but went on barking. “Churchill!” she called again, and in a moment came hurriedly into the room, wiping her hands on her apron. “Shame!” she said, glancing at the young man. “Churchill, what is the matter with you?” The barking continued.
   “Now then!” said the woman, slapping the infuriated animal on the snout with her palm. The dog hiccoughed, shook its head and stared up at her with a surprised expression. It barked once more. The woman slapped it again, more gently. “No, Churchill - shame! This is Martin, don’t you remember? He has forgotten you, she said apologetically over her shoulder. Go on now, back to your rug, Churchill. Bad dog, go on!” She herded the dog through the doorway. It moved stiffly backward, then turned reluctantly and disappeared, wheezing and snuffing. A final bark sounded from the next room.
   “Oh, dear,” said the woman.
   “I’m so sorry, Martin. Excuse me a moment-the coffee.” She went back into the kitchen, and the young man, slightly unnerved, began trotting back and forth beside the low bookshelves, looking at the titles of the books.
   At the far corner of the room he came upon a tiny cage suspended from a polished brass stand. There was a beige cloth cover on the cage. Curious, he plucked up the edge of the cloth and peered inside. In the dimness, a tiny bird with green and violet feathers was perched on a miniature trapeze. One pin-sized golden eye blinked at him; the creature said,“Weep?”
   The young man closed the cover again. It is just like the Zoo, he thought.
   The woman returned, looking flustered, with a tray in her hands. On the tray were sandwiches and coffee. She set it down on the table in front of the sofa.“Now come, eat, Martin, you must be hungry.” She made him sit on the sofa, and while he dutifully ate the sandwiches and drank the good coffee, she sat opposite him in the upholstered chair, hands clasped in her lap, smiling faintly as she watched him eat. Her cheeks were flushed with exertion.A few strands of dark hair had escaped from her coiffure and hung over her forehead.
   “Yes, eat, that is good,” she said. “Would you like some music, Martin?” The young man nodded, with his mouth full. The woman rose, went to a machine in the corner and punched several buttons. After a moment the machine began to emit music, something slow and soothing, played by an orchestra with many violins. The young man listened with pleasure, waving his sandwich.
   The woman sighed, then smiled.“No. You don’t remember, do you?” she asked.
   “Remember what?”
   “The music. We used often to dial it … never mind.” She crossed to the machine again and touched it; the music stopped. “But it’s really true, then, that you don’t remember anything?”
   “I think I do,” said the young man, lying cautiously. “You are my sister-”
   “No!” said the woman vehemently. “That’s not true at all. You don’t remember.” Her mouth was compressed and her eyes were closed.
   “But then why did you tell the doctor that you were my sister?” the young man demanded, bewildered.
   “Because I had to be a member of your family, or they would not have let me sign you out.”
   The young man swallowed, thinking this over. He laid his sandwich down. But if you are not my sister-”
   “Yes?”
   “Then what are you?”
   The woman’s face colored, and she glanced away. “Never mind, Martin … just a friend. We are just friends. Hand me those cigarettes, won’t you, Martin?”
   He followed her glance; there was nothing on the low table beside him but an ashtray and an enameled box. He lifted the lid: Correct, there were cigarettes inside.
   She took one, lit it with a tiny rose-quartz lighter, tilted her head back to puff out a long streamer of smoke. With her left hand she was absently setting the black pieces in their places.
   “Don’t you want one?” she asked.
   The young man looked dubiously at the white cylinders. He had never tried to smoke a cigarette, but doubtless it was one of the things he should learn.
   He put one gingerly between his lips, took it out again and looked at it, then replaced it and touched the other end with the lighter. He sucked cautiously; the cigarette glowed. Cool, bittertasting smoke ran into his mouth. Before he realized what he was doing, he breathed some of it into his lungs, where it felt astonishingly good. He took another pull at the cigarette. He realized with grateful delight that the smoke was somehow soothing one of the urgent discomforts he had been feeling all this time, ever since he had left the Zoo.
   “How good that is!” he said, staring at the burning cylinder.
   The woman’s eyes filled with tears. She leaned forward and put put her cheek against his. Her arms went around him convulsively.
   “Oh, darling, had you forgotten that too?” she said weeping.

   IX

   THE BIPED awoke. The room was flooded with pale, colorless morning light. He got slowly out of bed, clacking his jaws. What day was this? He could not remember. But what did it matter, anyhow?
   He could hear Emma in the office space, already clattering away at the orthotyper. The biped got a drink of water, glanced into his outer room-no one was at the railing as yet, the Zoo was not open so early-then wandered into the office space and sat down at his desk.
   The basket was piled with work he had not finished yesterday, but it was only accounting forms. Nowadays they gave him nothing else to do. He picked up the top one, then set it down again without even trying to read it; it was too much trouble.
   The female said something in a low voice. In his surprise at hearing her speak, he missed the words.
   “What?”
   She said, without pausing or looking up from her work:“Do you think you are the only one who is unlucky? I don’t.”
   The biped gaped at her.“What do you mean by that?”
   “Some others, also, have a difficult life.” She whipped the page neatly out of her machine, added it to the stack beside her. She inserted another page, spaced down, began typing again.
   The biped felt vaguely insulted. He snorted.“What do you know about it?”
   Before she could reply, the outer door clicked. Emma stopped typing. They both turned to watch Otto come in with his cart.“Breakfast,” said the man gruffly. “Here, take it, eat, don’t waste my time.” He dumped a basket of work on the biped’s desk, then another on Emma’s.
   Blinking angrily, the biped picked up his covered plate and carried it into his own room.
   What did the creature mean by it? Who was she, to speak to him in that way?
   His anger grew; he could hardly eat. He put the plate aside half-finished, went back into the office space. Emma was not there.
   He walked aimlessly around for a while, kicking at the gray tiles. Here was the scuffed mark, almost invisible, where Griick had drawn a chalk line across the room. There was irony for you! To protect Emma from him, as if he were some sort of crude beast, whereas in reality it was just the other way around.
   He heard a noise, and turned to see the female coming out of her room. She paused. Her hands went to the knob on her head.
   “Look here, Emma,” the biped began a little uncertainly.
   “You are on my side of the room,” she piped.
   “Oh, hang that! What does it matter, any more?” The biped took a step toward her, growing excited. “Look here, just because you’ve lived in a Zoo all your life, I suppose you think-” She snapped something, and moved past him to her desk.
   “What was that?” the biped demanded irritably. “Speak up. I said, I have not lived in a Zoo all my life.” The female put on her earphones, rolled paper into the machine, began to type.
   “Well, perhaps not in this Zoo, but you were born in a Zoo somewhere, weren’t you?”
   Emma glanced up.“I was born on Brecht’s Planet. They came and took me away when I was a baby.” Her typing resumed.
   The biped felt he had somehow been put in the wrong.“Well, of course that’s too bad and so forth, but don’t you see the difference?” He began to speak more vehemently, warming to his subject. “My God, I should think it’s obvious enough. Here are you, an animal that’s spent most of its life in one Zoo or another - you’re used to it, you can put up with it. And here am I, a man shut up in an animal’s body, kept in this stinking cage day after day!”
   While he was speaking, the female had stopped her work, and now sat looking quietly down at her threefingered hands on the keyboard.
   After a moment, she got up from her chair and began to walk past him. Her eyes were closed. The biped saw that her throat was working convulsively.
   “Oh, now, wait a minute,” he said, stricken.
   She kept on walking. When a desk got in her way, she maneuvered around it by using her hands.
   “Look here, Emma,” the biped said, “I didn’t want to hurt your feelings or anything. The fact is, I got carried away. I didn’t mean the cage is actually stinking, it was just an expression.”
   The female disappeared into her room. Irritated again, the biped followed as far as the doorway.“Come out, Emma!” he shouted. “Haven’t I said I was sorry?”
   Emma did not reply. Although the biped hung sulkily around the office space for hours, she did not come out for the rest of the morning.

   “BUT tell me,” Neumann was saying at lunch that afternoon, under the shifting colored lights of the rotunda, “in all seriousness, my dear Griick, what was the truth of the matter? You managed it so cleverly that I am still confused. Is the biped really this Herr Naumchik, or not?”
   Herr Doktor Griick laid down his knife and fork, his eyes, turning sober behind their rimless glasses.“My dear Neumann,” he said slowly, “what does it matter? In either case, the result is just the same-we have, as before, two bipeds. One is male, the other female.”
   “But if the male was a human being before?”
   “Still he is a biped now.” The good doctor stuffed a bite of liver sausage into his mouth and chewed vigorously. “If I take any credit to myself in this whole affair, gentlemen, and really, allow me to say this in passing, my success has been due to the excellent cooperation of my staff-”
   “Too modest, murmured Neumann.
   “Not at all!” cried Dr. Griick happily. “But if, and I emphasize if, I take any credit to myself, it is precisely because I alone perceived this one small fact from the beginning. Who or what our Fritz was, before, is not of the slightest consequence. If we are to believe the Hindus, our Wenzl here might have been a beetle in some previous incarnation.”
   Here Griick paused to let the laughter subside.“But this makes no difference. Beetle or no, at the present moment he is still Wenzl. Our Wenzl understands this, I am confident. As for our Fritz, he does not understand it as yet. But when he does, trust me, you will see a much healthier and more contented animal.”
   A gawky young keeper appeared at his elbow, holding out a package. Griick turned in annoyance.“Yes? What is it?”
   “Pardon me, Herr Doktor,” said the young fellow, blushing and stammering, “but Freda, that is, your honored secretary, asked me to bring this straight up. She said you would want to see it at once.” Griick accepted the parcel with a humorous shrug and a glance around at the company, as if to say, “You see what my life is!” He turned the parcel over once or twice, glancing at the inscriptions.
   All at once he gave a start of interest.“By the packet from Xi Bootes Alpha! From Purser Bang!”
   “Excuse me, gentlemen, this really may be important.” He began to tear open the wrappings impatiently. Inside was a sheaf of papers. Griick examined the first sheet intently.
   “Yes, the report of the research team on Brecht’s Planet. Now we shall discover something!” He turned a page, then another. Yes, they have dissected three bipeds, a male and two females. …” He fell silent, reading one. After a moment, his jaw dropped in surprise. He glanced up at the curious faces around the table.
   “But … it says that the males are females, and the females are males!” Griick frowned. “But it’s impossible!” he muttered.
   “What’s that you say?” Neumann demanded. The females are males, and the males females? That doesn’t make sense, Herr Doktor. What, are they hermaphrodites? Then why not say so?”
   “No … no …” answered Griick abstractedly, still reading. “My God, we have all made a serious mistake! Just look here, see what it says!” He held out a page, pointing to one paragraph with a thick, trembling finger.
   Neumann took the paper, held it to the light and read slowly,‘The inguinal glands, previously thought to be male gonads, have been found to be without connection with the reproductive system, and their function remains unknown. It has been suggested that they are merely organs of display, analogous to the wattles and comb of the terrestrial cock. However, it must again be emphasized that the bearer of these organs is the female, not the male of the species. It is she who carries the young in a placental sac and gives live birth. Impregnation, however, is achieved by an extremely unusual method. The male gametes are carried in the purplish-red frontalorgan which appears in developed form only in the adult male. During rut, the female …’ “Good heavens, Griick, just listen to this …”

   FRITZ and Emma were sitting side by side in the cot in her inner room-Emma tensely, with her hands tightly covering her knob, the biped leaning toward her, an arm around her body, speaking earnestly into her ear.
   “You know, Emma, that I didn’t mean any harm. You do believe it, don’t you?”
   “It isn’t that,” she said in a muffled voice. “It’s the way they all treat me-as if I were only an animal. They say I am not human, and so it is correct to keep me in a cage all my life.” She looked up. “But what is it to be human? I think, I have feelings, I talk. I even type their letters for them, and still it’s not enough.”
   Her slender body shivered.“It’s bad enough to hear them talk about me as if I were some creature that couldn’t speak or hear. But when you-”
   “Emma, don’t, please,” said the biped, overcome by tenderness and remorse. “Of course you’re right, you’re as human really as any of them. What does it matter if you have a different shape? It’s the mind inside, the soul that counts, isn’t it? Why can’t they understand that?”
   She looked up again.“Do you really-”
   “Of course,” said the biped, hugging her closer. Warm, new emotions were coursing through him. “Some day they must all see it, Emma. We’ll make them listen, you’ll see. There, Emma. It’s going to be all right. We’re friends now, aren’t we?”
   She looked up again, timidly. Her body stopped shivering.“Yes, Fritz,” she said.
   The biped hugged her still closer. Along with the protectiveness he felt, there was a fierce joy, a sense of rightness. For some moments they did not speak.
   “Emma?”
   “Yes?”
   “We’re really friends now? You’re not afraid of me any more?”
   “No, not any more, Fritz.”
   “Then why keep your hands over your knob? Isn’t it uncomfortable? Don’t you trust me?”
   She shook her head.“I don’t know why … it’s just - Of course, I trust you, Fritz.”
   “Well then.”
   After a moment’s hesitation, she dutifully lowered her hands to her lap. Her knob was large, purplish-red, and had a faint spicy scent.
   “Now isn’t that better? Has anything dreadful happened because you uncovered it?”
   “No, Fritz,” she said. She laid her muzzle against his shoulder. “I feel so much better now.”
   “So do I, Emma. Oh, so do I. Bursting with emotion, the biped bent his head closer; and with an instinctive deftness which took them both by surprise, he bit her knob off.

   X

   THE WORLD vanished, leaving a greenish glow. The young man became aware of his body, cramped into the cushioned seat.
   Around him in the great bowl, other figures were stirring.
   His buttocks were numb and his head ached. He struggled to his feet. It was hard to become used to the silence, and the smallness of things.
   Reeling, dizzy, he came out into the hot afternoon sunlight.
   He passed the bakery with its gigantic, fragrant stereo-loaf forever swelling over the doorway. Three darkskinned men in funny little white hats and baggy white trousers came toward him, all talking at once in a foreign language.
   A cat ran across the plaza, pursued by something small and green, with many scuttling legs. The sun was hot on the paving stones; heat waves swam in the air.
   At the next corner, a crowd had gathered around a little man in green and a gigantic, barrelchested creature with sparse pinkish feathers, which the little man held by a leash. Coins tinkled in a cup. Prodded by its owner, the huge creature did a clumsy, shuffling dance. Its face was part human, part jelly-fish, moronic and blank.“Thank you, sir, thank you, lady,” said the little man, tipping his cap. Tinkle. “Thank you, sir.”
   The young man kept walking. After all, in the cinema one saw bigger monsters than that.
   He paused at the newsstand at the end of the plaza, bought the Berliner Zeitung and the Hamburger Tageblatt, folded the crisp sheets pleasurably under his arm. The next stall was a fruit stand. The young man passed it nearly every day, and sometimes bought bananas or oranges. But today it was different. In the middle of the stall was a mound of greenish-yellow ovoids, bigger than pears, with a sign:“Special! Just arrived from Brecht’s Planet! Unusual! Try one!” The price was 1 mark 10.
   The young man’s mouth went dry with excitement. From Brecht’s Planet! He fumbled in his pocket. He had just enough.
   The bored attendant took his money, handed him one of the greenish fruits. The young man held it carefully as he walked away. It was heavy, warm and waxy to the touch.
   A phrase from his lost book came back to him:“Certain greenish fruits, which the bipeds eat with avidity …”
   Never before had he felt so close to the planet of his birth. It had always been a little unreal to him, something one read about in books. Now, for the first time, he felt that it really existed, that it was made up of real stones and dirt, and had real trees on it bearing real fruit.
   Catching sight of Frau Beifelder in the building lobby, her little red eyes watchful and suspicious as always, the young man instinctively slipped the heavy fruit into his pocket, but he kept his hand on it.
   “Good afternoon, Frau Beifelder,” he said politely, crossing to the elevator. The old woman did not reply but merely narrowed her eyes still further.
   The young man stopped the elevator at every floor, as usual, peering curiously at the closed red doors. Julia’s door stood ajar, but instead of stopping, he went on up in the elevator, fourth floor, fifth, sixth. He got out, trotted over to the little stair, climbed to the roof.
   Berlin lay spread out around him in the hot summer sunlight. The curved threads of the Flugbahnen glittered against the blue. Over there, rising out of a cluster of lower rooftops, bulged the golden dome of the Konzertgebaude.
   A cool breeze was blowing steadily across the roof, making the newspapers flap against his arm. The young man gripped them in annoyance, not wanting to relinquish the warm fruit in his hand. A few meters away, a ventilator was turning rapidly under its little black hood. The young man turned his attention to an airplane soaring over the blue-gray horizon. He sniffed the air with interest: Diesel fuel, ozone, hot concrete.
   On the parapet a large butterfly or moth was lying feebly moving its blue-and-purple wings. The young man examined it curiously. It did not seem able to fly. When he prodded it with his finger, it merely went on with the slow, spasmodic movements of its wings.
   Something landed with a faint thud behind him, and he turned to see another butterfly, identical to the first. It lay quivering for a moment, then began the same slow, feeble motions. Suddenly the young man realized that the air was full of them: tiny dark shapes drifting down, landing on the rooftops all around. There were a half a dozen at his feet, then twice as many. One struck him a limp, soft blow on the neck before it dropped to the roof.
   Annoyed, the young man turned to leave; but although he picked his way carefully to the stair entrance, he could not avoid crushing several of the brittle bodies under his feet.

    [Картинка: img_0017.png] 

   HE GOT OFF at the third floor again and opened the door cautiously. Julia kept it unlatched now, usually, because he had had so much trouble with keys. Inside, all was quiet.
   Maggie, the cat, strolled up to greet him with a querulous sound. The young man dropped to all fours to touch noses with her. Her nose was wet and cold. She rubbed her face against his, arching her back and twitching her tail.
   A moment later there was a sound from the bedroom and Churchill came out, looking dangerous. When he saw it was only the young man, the mad glare left his eyes. He waddled up and sniffed, then caressed the young man’s face with his ill-smelling tongue.
   The young man got up and wiped his face with a tissue.
   “Martin?” came a sleepy voice from the bedroom.
   The young man went down the hall and peered in through the doorway. Julia was looking sleepily at him from the bed.“What time is it?”
   The young man glanced at his wristwatch.“Nearly three o’clock. Are you feeling better, Julia?”
   “Yes, I think so. Would you mind bringing me a drink of water?”
   “Not at all, dear Julia.” The young man trotted into the kitchen and filled a glass.
   He sat on the bed to watch her drink it, feeling rather peculiar. It was the first time he had ever been invited into her bedroom. Once before, he had happened to look in while she was undressing, and had seen her naked breasts, which interested him very much, but made him feel so odd that he had run out of the apartment. Now he could see their round shapes under the thin white nightdress she wore, and out of curiosity he touched one. It was soft and swinging, but had a hard protrusion of another color in the middle.
   “Oh!” she said, looking startled; her hand went up to grasp his.
   “Did I hurt you?”
   “No … no, it’s all right, Martin. Touch them if you like.” She set the glass down and taking both his hands, guided them to her breasts.
   “Dear Martin,” she said. He saw that her eyes were bright with tears.
   “Dear Julia.” Leaning over, he kissed her. For a first attempt, it was not at all bad; the noses went to one side of each other, which he had always thought would be very difficult.
   The woman’s breath caught; after a moment her arms went around him, held him tightly. The kiss continued, and after a short time, other interesting things began to happen.
   When it was over, the young man lay on his back, exhausted and astonished. Julia was sitting up, brushing her hair and humming quietly to herself.
   Suddenly the door-light flashed. They looked at each other.“Oh, dear, who can that be?”
   “I’ll go and see.”
   “Darling!” said the woman, holding out her hand to stop him, half weeping, half laughing: “First put your clothes back on.”
   “Oh.” The young man kissed her again, because she looked so rosy and contented, then got dressed. The door-light flashed repeatedly. “All right, I’m coming, I’m coming,” he muttered.
   In the hall stood a mediumsized man in a gray summer surcoat, puffing a cigar.“Well, Naumchik?” he said smiling.
   “Yes?” asked the young man uncertainly.
   “Don’t you know me? Tassen, of the Freie Presse - remember?”
   “No. Herr Tassen? What do you want?”
   “I was passing by,” said Tassen, looking him over with shrewd, friendly eyes. “So this is where you’re holed up? Mind if I come in a moment?”
   “Well - I suppose not.” The young man backed away uncertainly, and Tassen followed him, looking around the apartment with interest.

   THERE WAS a bellow from the bedroom, then the sound of claws scratching frantically against the closed door, followed by Julia’s muffled voice: “Churchill, stop it! Bad dog!”
   Tassen cocked an eyebrow toward the sounds but made no comment.“Well, this is a cozy place, Naumchik. I won’t keep you a moment. You won’t mind if I sit down, I suppose?”
   “Please.”
   “Seen anything of Zellini lately?”
   “Please?”
   Tassen frowned, tapped his cigar into an ashtray.“Have you been back to Paris at all - since the - ?” He raised his eyebrows again.
   “To Paris?” asked the young man, confused. “No.”
   “I suppose you know they’ve tied a rocket to you?”
   “Pardon?”
   “Discharged you - given you the sack.”
   “Oh. No, I didn’t know it.” Tassen drew on his cigar, staring at the young man. After a moment he asked, “Just what happened to you, anyhow, Naumchik? One moment, as far as I understand, you were a perfectly regular young newspaperman - then that biped business, and next, you were swinging from the ceilings in Elektra. I gather you’re all right now.”
   “Oh, yes, perfectly.”
   “Well?”
   “Well?”
   Tassen looked baffled and faintly annoyed.“Of course, if you don’t want to discuss it with me -”
   “But I don’t remember.”
   “Oh?” Tassen blinked. “What don’t you remember?”
   “Anything - before Elektra.”
   “I see. So that’s it. Then you’re not likely to tell me what you were up to with that biped, are you?”
   “No.”
   “I see that. Well, anyhow, Naumchik, it’s good to know you’re on your feet again. I take it you haven’t been doing any journalistic work lately?”
   “No.”
   “Want to do any?”
   “I hadn’t thought about it,” the young man said.
   “Not too easy for you to get a job on any of the Berlin papers, after that stunt, probably,” said Tassen. “But you might get some free-lance work. Do a feature on your experiences in Elektra - why not?” He stood up, took a card from his surcoat pocket. “Here’s my address. If I can be any help -”
   With a cheerful wave, he was gone.
   On the following day, the young man remembered the fruit from Brecht’s Planet, and decided to open it before it should spoil. The greenish-yellow rind was quite thin; inside was a rather sickly-looking yellow pulp. Julia ate a slice and pronounced it interesting. The young man, however, took one bite and immediately spat it out: the pulp was soft and unpleasant, with a distinct rancid flavor. The disappointment was so acute that he mourned for days.
   The good weather lasted until October; then it turned blustery and cold, with snow and occasional flurries of sleet. On an evening in late November, the young man entered the bar of the Correspondents’ Club. He stood for a moment, shaking melted snow from his hat. The long mahogany bar was half deserted; the hooded bar lights were reflected in the mirrors, and the little green telephone lights glowed down the bar.
   Emile, the bartender, a redfaced Saxon, raised an eyebrow in greeting as the young man approached.
   “Good evening, Herr Naumchik. We haven’t seen you in some time.”
   “No, I’ve been in Westphalia, Emile. Give me a double Long John.”
   “Yes, sir.” Emile reached behind him for the bottle, poured a glass brimming full. He leaned nearer to remark, “There was a call for you earlier, Herr Naumchik. A lady.”
   “Oh? Did she give her name?”
   “No, sir. If she calls again, shall I say you are here?”
   The young man reflected.“Might as well. I wonder who it is, Nina? Olga? What sort of a looking woman was she, Emile?” he asked, but the stout bartender had already moved away and was cupping an ear toward another customer.
   “Hello, Naumchik, when did you get in?” A tall man wearing tweeds and a Tyrolean hat edged in beside him at the bar. He spoke in a thick English accent. By a short leash he held a slim, silkenhaired greyhound with great mournful eyes. The dog nudged his cold nose into the young man’s palm.
   “Oh, hello, Potter.” The young man slapped absently at the dog’s muzzle. “Just this morning. Down, Bruno. Should have been two o’clock last night, but we were stacked up five hours over Templehof.”
   “Terrible weather,” said Potter. “Anything to that regeneration story?”
   “No, it was a frost, but I got a couple of columns out of it anyway. You look all right. I heard you’d broken your arm at Riga.”
   “No, that was Merle,” said the man, motioning with his chin to a corner table, where a blonde young woman sat with one arm in a sling. She lifted her glass and smiled.
   “Oh, too bad,” said the young man, returning the gesture.
   “It’s all right. Makes her more manageable. Sometimes I wish they’d all break their arms, or legs, or something.”
   A perspiring young man in black came by and clutched the Englishman’s arm. “Look here, Potter, do you know where I can find Johnny Ybarra?”
   “No, no idea - have you tried the brothels?”
   “All of them?” asked the sweating man despairingly over his shoulder as he hurried out. “Hello, Naumchik,” he added just before he disappeared.
   Emile, who had been speaking into the hooded telephone at the end of the bar, looked up and raised his eyebrows. The young man nodded. Emile pressed a key, and the handset in front of the young man lighted up.
   “Excuse me, Donald. Hello - oh, it’s you, Julia!”
   The tiny face in the screen looked up at him with a smile.“How lucky to catch you, Martin! I called just on the chance of finding - Can you come for dinner?”
   “Let me think. Yes - no, confound it, I’ve got to have dinner with Schenk. I’m sorry, Julia, I forgot.”
   “It’s a pity. I’d love to see you, Martin.” She looked up at him wistfully.
   “So would I. Maybe I could meet you somewhere tomorrow for cocktails …” The young man reflected that although Julia was a bit old for him, and he had no intention of starting that up all over again, still there was no getting around the fact that he had many pleasant memories of that little flat on the Heinrichstrasse, where he had written his first story on Julia’s little portable - “I Was Elektra’s Climbing Enigma,” by Martin Naumchik. How proud they had both been when they saw it printed in the paper! Everything since had stemmed from that… “How is Churchill?”
   “I had to give him away, Martin. He was becoming so surly; he bit a good friend of mine. Too bad. But you still have Maggie?”
   “Yes, Maggie is fine.”
   Down the bar, three men in plastic surcoats were tossing coins into a metal tub which stood before a stereo of a plump young woman in Bavarian peasant costume. Each time a coin fell into the tub, the girl turned slowly around and lifted her skirts, displaying her bare bottom; each time this happened, the three men burst into roars of coarse laughter.
   Potter touched him on the shoulder and mouthed,“Goodby;” the young man turned, waved.
   “Well, Martin, do call me if you can.”
   “Yes, I’ll do that. Tomorrow, sometime in the afternoon. You’re still at the Ministry?”
   “Still there.”
   “Fine, I’ll call you. Good-by.” The pathetic face in the telephone screen winked out. Sighing with regret and relief, the young man replaced the handset.

   A PLUMP young man in a brown jacket took Potter’s place at the bar. He had a bristly, unkempt mustache and protruding blue eyes, and somehow managed to look both innocent and dissolute.
   “Hello, Naumchik.”
   “Hello, Wallenstein.”
   The plump man signaled to the bartender.“Emile, a Black Wednesday. Listen, Naumchik, you may be just the man I want. You know Kohler, the fellow who runs that string of provincial weeklies?”
   “Yes, what about him?”
   “Well, it’s ridiculous - I owe the man a favor - I promised I’d cover that Zoo story for him tomorrow. Then what should happen, but UPI offers me a plush assignment in Oslo. Two months, all expenses, best hotels. Well, I mean to say! But I’ve got to leave in the morning or it’s no go. Youwouldn’t mind, would you, Naumchik - take you just half an hour - I’d even throw in a bit out of my own pocket.”
   “Hold on a minute, I’ve lost you. What Zoo story?”
   “Oh, one of their bipeds has given birth, and Kohler wants to play it up for the farm audience. What do you say?”
   “Well, I suppose there’s no reason -” the young man began, then suddenly stopped. What a curious sensation! Out of the depths of his memory floated the picture of a two-legged creature scrabbling against the glass wall of a cage, while he, outside in the cold air, looked with amazement at hispink, five-fingered hands. How odd. It was the first time in months he had even thought of it.
   “Well? It’s agreed?”
   “No, on second thought, I don’t believe it would be advisable,” said the young man.
   “Not advisable? What do you mean? Come on, old fellow, I’ll put in ten of my own on top of Kohler’s twenty - now how’s that?”
   Naumchik drained his glass quickly, set it down.“No, I’m sorry, he said. “I’ve just remembered, I’ve got to be somewhere else tomorrow.” He clapped the plump young man on the back. “Well, you’ll find someone, I’m sure. So long, Wallenstein.”
   The plump man pouted at him.“Well, then, if you want to be a bastard.”
   “I do,” said Martin Naumchik cheerfully. “Aren’t we all? Keep it clean, old man.” He walked out, whistling. On the threshold he paused to breathe deep. The snow had stopped. The stars were crystal bright over the roof tops.


Взято из Флибусты, http://flibusta.net/b/655833
