
   Dedication
   For Sam“Secret Agent Man” Morgan

   Chapter One
   The really annoying thing about being tortured was that Detan had
volunteered for the experience. He hung from the ceiling of a nasty
little room in the yellowhouse, ropes digging into the tender flesh of
his wrists. Slowly, he spun, toes brushing the grit of the floor, body
twisting as he struggled to grip the rope and haul himself up to relieve
the pain. No use. He’d been there too long, and each time he managed to
lift himself the muscles of his arms and shoulders trembled until he
fell again. The ropes bit all the deeper for the extra weight jerked
upon them.
   Aella laughed. He tried to glare at her, but with the sack pulled over
his head he probably just scowled at a blank wall.
   “Sadist,” he said.
   “Need I remind you this was your idea? Though I’m beginning to think it
was a poor one. We’re to test your control, Honding. If you keep lipping
off, remaining calm, then greater measures will need to be taken.”
   The butt of Misol’s spear scraped pointedly against the hard stone. He
swallowed.
   “I can’t help it if you can’t get a rise out of me, Aella. I suppose
your flavor of fear just isn’t my type.”
   His body screamed at him to shut his mouth, to button up to stop the
pain from coming. But he’d asked for this. Needed it, if he were being
honest with himself. Needed to know where the fine limits of his control
rested, and just how hard they could be nudged.
   Aella tsked. Her bare feet pattered against the floor as she paced.
She’d taken her slippers off to keep the blood from staining. “A full
shift of the moon, and we haven’t been able to push the limits of your
temper. A pity, for you, that Pelkaia taught you her calming techniques.
If you’d come to me ignorant, then we could have kept our measures mild.
I wonder,” she hmmed to herself, “if I shouldn’t have kept Tibal after
all.”
   He went rigid.
   “Oh, he was useless to me, really,” she continued. Her tunic shifted,
the slight rustle of fabric telling him she was circling. Like a shark
that’d scented blood. He tried to keep his head down, his body loose,
while she paced. “No sense in his thin little body. No sense in his
head, either, to have followed you around as long as he did. I wonder
how much it hurt him, to hear you tell him off? I wonder: just where did
it cut? Is he still bleeding inside? Or is he done with you already?
Found another capering idiot to keep alive with his spare time?
   “Perhaps I should have kept him, just to put him out of his misery.
There is still time, I suppose. Misol, how long do you think it would
take to reach Hond Steading?”
   “Monsoons are in,” Misol replied. “On theLarkspur, maybe two weeks.”
   “Oh, but I doubt he took theLarkspur.” Her fingers brushed Detan’s
jawline through the bag. He flinched away. “No, he took the flier,
didn’t he? I’m sure he had that contraption stashed somewhere, he’s such
a sentimental sack of bones. A month, easily, to get to Hond Steading in
the monsoons on that thing. I bet he’s noteven there yet. I could send
a message along, quick as an arrow. Have him scooped up, brought back to
make you sing for his pain. Would you like that, Honding? To see your
little friend again? To see him bleed?”
   “Don’t you fucking dare.” Anger sang through him, thrummed just beneath
his skin, choked him with the urge to lash out, to grab at the thin
sheet of selium hovering just above the yellowhouse.
   She clapped.“Ah, there it is! Aren’t you a soft soul? Your own pain
won’t do it, but those of others whips you right up. Pity we don’t have
anyone you value close to hand.”
   “I think you’re just precious, Aella. Why don’t you string yourself up
here? I’m sure my heart will burst from sadness.”
   “You see? It’s that attitude that keeps us from testing you as you are.
Misol, prepare a message for Thratia’s network. Send word that Tibal’s
presence is requested here at the Remnant, with all haste.”
   Detan’s stomach sank, cold sweat dripped between his wrenched shoulder
blades. He had to get angry. Had to work up a righteous fury. It
shouldn’t be hard. He knew Aella was serious, knew she’d do just exactly
what she said she’d do to break him. Images of Tibs hanging in his
place, dripping sweat and blood and bile onto the hard floor, filled
him. He shivered, nausea threatening to rise, unable to shake his shame
when what he desperately wanted was a good outburst.
   Misol said,“Pardon, Miss Ward, but I’ve an idea that’s a bit closer to
hand.”
   “Oh? Don’t tell me he’s developed a soft spot for you.”
   “Hardly. But there are two women here at the Remnant I’ve been keeping
an eye on. Friends of Ripka’s. Without their help, she would have been
torn apart in the riot on that last day. I bet Honding would feel just
terrible if they were to suffer for his insufficiencies.”
   “I’m willing to try it. Go collect these women.”
   Misol slipped from the room, letting the door bang shut behind her.
   “Those women.” Detan licked his cracked lips. “They have nothing to do
with this. My control has grown much in the last few weeks, I hardly
think it’s necessary to bring them into things.”
   “No, they don’t.” Aella sighed. “And while your control is admirable, it
has not been tested under true duress.” She gave his ropes a jangle, and
he winced from the hundred tiny lances of pain that raked through his
arms. “We must be certain, or would you rather risk blowing the head off
some poor innocent because you believe yourself under control?”
   “It’s unnecessarily cruel.” His voice drifted into a soft growl.
   “That is thepoint.” She stroked his cheek with the back of her hand.
“And isn’t it just heaps of fun?”
   Chapter Two
   Hond Steading lay like a pearl without the shelter of its shell upon the
horizon. The great city, the first city, the heart of all the Scorched
continent, was a cracked open thing. Broken and spread across the wide
valley between its renowned firemounts, it sprawled and breathed and
pumped, citizens filling out its flush lanes, the figures indistinct
from a distance but merging together to make a whole as alive and
vibrant from above as it must be from up close.
   It should have been beautiful. But all Ripka saw, as she squinted over
the forerail of theLarkspur, was an indefensible mess. A loose-knit
cluster of urban living threaded between the most valuable resource of
the Scorched– its firemounts – ripe and ready for Thratia to pluck.
   “Looks bad,” Nouli said.
   He stood beside her, rubbing his hands together as the city sprawl came
into view.
   She gave him a sidelong glance.“You think?”
   He puffed out his cheeks and chuckled.“Forgive me, but I have to start
somewhere. This city you’ve brought me to defend, did you know it was
so…” He waved a hand over the disparate pieces below.
   “This is the first time I’ve seen it. Detan assured me you’d be able to
figure something out.”
   “I appreciate the man’s faith, but some things–”
   “Prepare to dock!” Coss bellowed from the nav podium.
   Activity burst across the deck. Pelkaia’s crew scrambled to their tasks,
the ship turning on a knife’s edge to slew toward its destination.
Desert air gusted against Ripka’s cheeks, sweeping her hair from her
face and neck. She breathed deep of the rock-and-dust scent, caught a
hint of the weedy greens that flourished below. Afterso long on the
Remnant, setting down in a proper Scorched city again felt like coming
home.
   “That’s better,” Nouli said.
   Ripka had to agree. As theLarkspur swung about, the ship pointed them
at the city’s core, the dense urban center that swarmed around the
Honding family palace. It backed up against the largest of the city’s
firemounts. The palace itself stepped up the side of the mountain, but
the city stayed resolutely in the belly of the valley. A wall swaddled
the dense-packed heart of the city.
   Compared to the wall that had encircled Aransa, it was a meager thing.
It must have been some vestige of the city’s earlier life, when it was
little more than a frontier outpost. Now the gates stood wide open,
disgorging citizens in both directions. While Ripka doubted those gates
had been shut in decades, the mere sight of them eased her worries. At
least they had some sort of defensive measure to work with.
   From one of the palace’s many high towers a straight blade of a dock
awaited them. TheLarkspur sidled against it, timbers shivering at the
contact. Heavy thumps drummed the air as the crew tossed anchors and tie
lines over the sides.
   Three men in the sharp, black livery of the Honding family approached
the ship. Their uniforms gave Ripka pause. She’d known Detan was a lord
of an old family, but around him that was easy to forget. He was a
flippant man, caring but unpredictable. Half the time he was in
desperate need of a bath.
   But these guards– their weapons might have been hidden, but Ripka knew
a fighting force when she saw one – who arrayed themselves on the dock
wore the insignia of his family with pride. The same sword and pickaxe
crossed over a ship’s sail that was burned into the back of Detan’s
neck. On them it was dignified. Red and gold embroidery stitched into
black coats trimmed with crimson. On Detan, the scar had been a dirty,
greasy mess.
   “Ho,Larkspur,” a man with a head of iron-grey hair called out.
“You’ve been expected.”
   Whether that was a good thing or not, Ripka wasn’t sure, but she’d come
all this way to keep Thratia from taking another city. Whatever was
waiting for her in the Honding family palace, she would prevail.
   By previous arrangement, Pelkaia, Tibal, and Ripka were the only ones to
leave the ship. Though Hond Steading was supposed to be friendly
territory, they had no idea what they faced within those walls– what
the rumors of Detan’s misadventures would do to their welcome. The more
of them left to man the ship in case of a quick escape, the better.
   Ripka gave Nouli a pat on the shoulder and followed Tibal down the
gangplank. Pelkaia drifted after them. While her back was rigid, and her
chin held with regal bearing, Ripka found something odd about her
posture, as if she were trying to hide some sort of pain. Just a few
weeks ago, Pelkaia had swung down from the ropes of theLarkspur
without care. Now she looked shy of so much as a stubbed toe.
   The iron-haired man bowed to the three and fixed his gaze on Pelkaia.
   “You are Pelkaia Teria captain of theLarkspur, am I correct?”
   Pelkaia inclined her head. After the disaster on the Remnant, she’d
stopped bothering to hide the ship’s distinctive lines. “I am that. This
is Ripka Leshe, and Tibal.”
   “Well met,” he said, bowing his head to each. “I am Gatai, keymaster of
the Honding household and personal attendant to Dame Honding. The Dame
awaits you in her meeting room. Do you require ablutions before we
proceed? I can also send for fresh water to be brought to your ship.”
   Ripka raised her brows despite her desire to remain aloof. This kind of
hospitality was common on the Scorched: fresh water and a cloth to clean
your face were the simplest of pleasures in the desert, but rarely were
they offered to those who were unwelcome. She hoped this offering was a
good sign for their future, and not just a Honding family matter of
pride.
   There was a scuffle of feet behind them, and the group turned as one.
Honey made her way down the gangplank, Enard’s hand half-extended as if
he’d tried to grab her shoulder and missed. The woman’s curly mop of
hair caught the sunlight with unsettling brilliance, as if someone had
set her alight. She hummed to herself as she strolled along, unmindful
of all the startled gazes upon her, and came to stand beside Ripka.
   Pelkaia gave Ripka a look that said, quite clearly: can’t you control
your pet? While Tibal refused to look at her at all.
   Gatai cleared his throat gently.“A pleasure to meet you as well…?”
   Honey just stared at him, humming a little lullaby so soft Ripka
wondered if she were the only one who could hear it.
   “This is Honey,” Ripka offered to cut the tension. “She…” Ripka
faltered. What in the pits was she supposed to say here? She’s a woman
with a lust for blood who follows me around like a suckling kitten and
we’re all worried that if I send her back she’ll make roasts of the crew
in my absence? “She’s a friend.”
   Honey beamed. Gatai didn’t seem convinced – he had a pucker between his
brows that even careful training couldn’t smooth away – but he gathered
himself and bowed his head to Honey.
   “You are all,” and here he raised his voice to be heard by the crew
crowding the rail, “welcome to Hond Steading.”
   Unsteady murmurs from the crew. They’d spent all their time aboard theLarkspur avoiding cities like Hond Steading, hiding out in places
where imperial reach was imperfect, where their deviant abilities were
less likely to get them run out of town or killed. Ripka, having no
selium sensitivity herself, wondered what they felt now, to be both
known and welcomed in the largest city on the Scorched. She’d be wary,
in their place. But there must be some relief. Some fragile hope that at
last they may have found a place to belong.
   “My ship will take water. We, however, are anxious to greet the Dame.”
   One of Gatai’s men broke away, crisp-stepping into the palace to place
the order for water without so much as a glance from Gatai. Ripka
watched him go with hungry eyes. Here was a well-oiled machine, a force
trained to respond without direct interference from their leader. She
was desperate to pick Gatai’s brain on his training techniques. But
then, it’s not like she had a group to train any more.
   “After me, please,” Gatai said, and led them with practiced formality
into the palace. Ripka’s heart thumped away in her throat, excitement
thrumming through her despite the cool disposition she cultivated.
   This place was legend. And though most legends failed to live up to
their grandeur once seen up close, she found the Palace Honding did not
disappoint.
   Its walls were carved of native rock, set so close and fine she could
not tell if they were mortared at all. Oil-fed candelabras grew from the
ceiling, wrought iron twisted to look like lavish vines, their light
bright and warm and pure in the wide hall. A simple stretch of fine wool
made up the rug cushioning her feet. It would be unremarkable, except
that the whole length of it had been dyed a brilliant, emerald green.
Such color she had never seen before outside of nature. She imagined
Detan as a child, running wild through the palace, and wondered if he
ever really understood what privilege he’d been gifted until the day it
had been stripped from him.
   Dame Honding’s meeting room was no less elegant, but the Dame herself
held Ripka’s eye. Ripka had expected a battleship of a woman. What she
found instead was a spear.
   Dame Honding stood at the head of the room, one hand resting on the back
of a chair it seemed obvious the advisors fidgeting by her side would
much rather she sit in than stand beside. Her hair– gone wholly to
silver – had been piled atop her head in an elegant bun, framed by the
crossed pickaxe and sword carved into the wall behind her. She was the
tallest woman Ripka had ever seen. Despite age lending a slight stoop to
her shoulders, she towered over all gathered. And though her arms were
wrapped in navy silk, the slight curve of muscle along her bicep
betrayed an active lifestyle.
   She had Detan’s eyes.
   “Welcome to my home.” Her voice was clear, strong. She must be in her
seventies, Ripka marvelled, and yet looked ready to race a rockcat.
   “Your hospitality is most welcome,” Pelkaia said, pausing two strides
before the Dame. “If surprising.”
   The Dame smiled. Ripka could not help but study every line of her face,
seeking out other traces of Detan hidden away in the aged countenance.“All the little birds of the Scorched whisper in my ear. Your arrival
was expected, and anticipated.”
   “You understand the nature of my crew, my ship?” Pelkaia tensed, fingers
curled as if ready to form fists, or grab for a weapon. The Dame’s
advisors shifted restlessly. Gatai flicked a piece of lint from his
collar. The Dame inclined her head.
   “I know what you and your crew are, and that your ship is stolen
property. It matters not to me. You are free in my city, and Thratia’s
ability to keep what’s hers is her own business.”
   “If we stay here, she will come for it.”
   Dame Honding graced them with a grim smile.“She will come regardless.”
   “We have come to help you, if we may,” Ripka said.
   The Dame’s gaze snapped to her, and in that proud stance and steady
stare Ripka saw a shadow of what Detan might become one day. Could
become, if only he’d figure out how to keep a handle on himself and
accept the responsibility he’d been born into. Watching those eyes,
Ripka was not sure that that would be a good thing.
   “You must be Captain Leshe. I heard a rumor that my wayward nephew took
your life in the firemount of Aransa. I’m pleased to see you recovered.”
   Ripka cracked a small grin.“It seems your little birds have incomplete
information, Dame. I will be happy to fill in the details when you
wish.”
   “There is only one detail that matters to me.” She turned her hard gaze
upon Tibal. “Where is my nephew?”
   Tibal lingered toward the back of the hall, the drooping edge of his hat
tugged down to shadow his eyes.“Exactly where he always is: wherever he
wants to be, and to pits with the consequences.”
   Stiff backs all around, a slight flush of anger rouged the Dame’s
cheeks. Ripka started to say something, saw Gatai shake his head behind
the Dame, and sealed her lips shut. Whatever was going on here was older
than Ripka’s relationship with Detan.
   “Have you failed me after all these years, then, little bastard
Honding?”
   Chapter Three
   Aella had cut him down from the ceiling, but left his wrists bound
behind his back and the sack slouching over his face. She’d plopped him
down in the center of the room, told him merrily there were shards of
glass strewn across the floor, and traipsed off to join Misol in
concocting whatever foul plan they had in store for him next.
   He wasn’t about to let a threat of glass and the fact he’d consented to
this madness keep him corralled.
   Rolling his shoulders to loosen his stiffened neck, Detan unfolded his
legs and slowly, carefully, felt forward. Grit so thick it might as well
have been glass dragged at his toes, at the soles of his feet. Aella
must have had some poor grunt haul sand up from one of the island’s
beachheads.
   Painstakingly, he edged out the boundaries of his new space. Aella had
left him maybe a stride in all directions clear of the sand and glass. A
little halo of safety that was, at best, a paltry illusion. Really, she
needn’t bother. No matter how much rope she gave him, he wasn’t about to
hang himself by running off. He’d made this trade willingly, bent knee
to her not only to free his companions but to find out all there was to
know about himself. Such fences as the glass, as the ropes and the
chains, were laughable. If he wanted to leave, he could. And though he
desired to leave with every fiber of his being, greater forces held him
at bay. Locked him in place.
   He was corralled tighter by fear than he’d ever be by iron or glass.
   Worldbreaker.
   Misol tapped her spear butt against the ground, alerting him to their
return. Knowing she was there, he could just pick out the whisper-soft
patter of Aella’s bare feet against the stone.
   “Welcome back. May I fetch you some tea, or some cakes?” he drawled,
amused by the sharp halt of Aella’s tread. He could kiss Misol for her
subtle announcement. Any chance to startle Aella was one worth taking.
“I wouldn’t want you to find my hospitality lacking.”
   “I’ve found you some friends to entertain. Misol, bring them.”
   Aella stepped beside him, her small body a heavy presence in the air to
his left. She yanked the bag off his head. He blinked in the light,
twisted until he could see the door.
   Two women in Remnant-issued beige jumpsuits shuffled into the room,
everything about their posture taut and wary. One had straight black
hair cut short, the other hair like wet mud clinging to her cheeks. Both
appeared to have taken up the strange hobby of repeatedly getting their
noses broken. He’d never seen them before, and for their sake wished he
wasn’t seeing them now.
   Detan forced a smile and inclined his head to them.“Welcome to my
sitting room.”
   The brown-haired woman took one pointed look at the circular pit that
had been Detan’s training ground for the last few weeks and snorted.
“You need a better decorator.”
   He grinned. Leave it to Ripka to find friends with cheek, even in this
monstrous place.
   “This here’s Clink,” Misol said, nodding to the brown-haired woman, “and
this is Forge. Ladies, say hello to Detan Honding.”
   “Ain’t that a fancy name?” Clink asked.
   Forge snorted.“I faked a manifest for a Honding ship once. Big load of
dehydrated cactus, tasted like candied diarrhea. More money ‘n sense in
that family.”
   “Ah. Auntie Honding has always had a questionable palate. Wait. Did you
say faked?”
   Forge gave him a look like she’d give a slow child. “What you think I’m
doing on the Remnant, sightseeing?”
   “Speaking of.” Clink narrowed her eyes at him. “What are you doing
here?”
   “Would you believe sightseeing?”
   Both women smirked. Detan decided to like them. He had to like someone
around here, and it might as well be these women who had supposedly
helped Ripka out during her stay.
   “Detan is here to learn the nature of himself,” Aella said.
   “Sounds like a waste of time,” Clink said.
   Misol hid a smile by turning her head away, but Detan didn’t bother. He
laughed out loud. “Feels that way, most of the time. But I’m afraid it’s
best for everyone’s safety if I get myself figured out.”
   “Everyone’s?” Forge asked, incredulous.
   “Everyone’s,” he agreed. Their smirks vanished. Whether they believed
him or not, they certainly believed he meant what he said.
   “And you’re going to help him.”
   “We ain’t the altruistic type,” Clink said, eyes narrowing, but Aella
had already shifted her thoughts to the experiment to come, and was deaf
to her protests. For all the brainpower that girl was packing, she could
be remarkably single-minded at times. Focus like that was a rarity in
the adults Detan had stumbled across in his day, but common enough in
any hunting viper’s path he’d had the misfortune of crossing.
   Aella stepped through the minefield of sand and glass on the tips of her
toes, light as a stone skipping across still water. Taking her cue,
Misol dug around in a pouch slung about her hips and produced two
leather sacks, stitched up tight and bulging all around at the seams.
Detan licked his lips. He didn’t need to use his sel-sense to know there
was selium in those bladders.
   “One for you,” Misol said, and gave the first to Forge. “And for you.”
She passed the other to Clink. The women turned them over in their
hands, brows furrowed.
   “This is sel, isn’t it?” Clink asked.
   “Yes it is,” Aella confirmed. Her eyes shone as she leaned toward the
two women, practically radiating curiosity.
   “What you want us to do with it?” Clink demanded. “We’re not sensitive.
Wouldn’t be here if we were, would we?”
   “You’d be surprised,” Detan muttered.
   “Hush,” Aella ordered him. “All you have to do is to stand on opposite
sides of the room, and hold those tight. Can you do that?”
   The women exchanged a look. It was Clink who asked the pertinent
question,“Why?”
   “We’re going to put Detan here through his paces. See how much he’s
learned.”
   “And if we refuse?”
   Aella’s excitement dimmed like a snuffed candle. “There are quite a few
people in this prison who would like dearly to have some time alone with
you two, after your assistance in Ripka Leshe’s escape. I can arrange
that meeting, if you’d like.”
   They swallowed in unison.“That won’t be necessary.”
   “Excellent.” Aella was all warm smiles and friendly chatter as she
ushered the women to their places. “Now, Detan, this is for you. Get to
know it well, you have only a few moments.”
   She thrust a third bladder of selium into his hands. He turned it over
with care, tracing his thumb along the seams, extending his sel-sense
just enough to know the exact shape of the selium hidden within. How it
pushed against the leather, how it’d found a little weakness in one of
the seams and was bunching up against it. Selium was good at that. At
finding the weak points and pushing, pushing. Maybe he was kindred
spirits with the gas after all.
   Aella snatched it from him, and before he could complain the sack was
back over his head.
   “Now.” Soft footsteps, fading to silence. “You must work your little
deviation upon just this sphere, understood? It alone is not being held
by the women. It alone will not harm anyone, if you manage to control
yourself and set fire to it and only it.”
   “Set fire?” Clink blurted.
   “Erupt may be a better word,” Aella corrected with slow care.
   “Erupt?”
   “Hmm? Yes, erupt. Like the firemounts. Now hush,” Aella ordered. “I’m
shuffling the women’s positions now, so that you cannot rely on their
placement from before the bag was pulled over your head. If they speak,
or make the slightest noise, they will be moved.”
   Detan closed his eyes and strained, struggling to listen for the patter
of their footsteps. Aella was the lighter of the three, and her step was
soft against the stone, but she paced and paced, until he couldn’t tell
where she’d begun and where she’d ended up.
   “There,” she said. “The sphere is placed. Find it. Destroy it.”
   Sweat beaded across his forehead, sticking to the bag.“And if I can’t?”
   “Neither of these women will eat again until you do.”
   Right. He really hadn’t known what he’d expected, but it wasn’t that.
Pain for himself he could handle, but watching the two women who saved
Ripka starve to death just wasn’t something he was willing to do. But
neither was he willing to blow their hands off. Which, of course, Aella
knew.
   Get it over with, he scolded himself, and let his body relax, slumping,
as he gradually grew in awareness. He started with his toes, feeling and
flexing every muscle, working his way up until he was aware of every
last crease of his forehead. That was the easy part.
   He waited until his breath came smooth and easy, then reached out. His
sel-sense flared within him, drawing from an old well of anger and hurt.
It boiled through him like fire, seared his soul like something far
worse. He wanted to flinch away from the power, from the potential that
lurked within him. Had spent the past few years of his life doing just
that. But he couldn’t. Not any more. That was why he was here, after
all. To examine that fire, that great gaping maw of rage, and bend it to
his will.
   Detan probed his anger. His arms tensed. He forced himself to ease them,
struggling to find a balance. If he relaxed too much, he lost his edge,
couldn’t force the selium to slam itself together and burst apart. But
neither could he grow too tense. He knew all too well the devastation he
was capable of when he let his rage take the reins of his talents.
   He was cold. Absolutely shivering. Sweat streaked down the muscles of
his bare back, coalesced in a river along the valley of his spine. How
long had he sat there, sweating and fretting? He couldn’t think of that.
Couldn’t let the passing time worry him. Someone shifted aching feet,
impatient. He zeroed in on the sound and couldn’t pinpoint who it was.
Not that that was the point. If he cheated this test, he cheated
himself.
   He gave up on hesitance, reached his sense with deliberate care to
examine the sources of sel in the room. Three, as promised. All of them
hauntingly familiar. Which one had been his? Which one had Aella let him
hold in his hands?
   Cruel as she was, she wouldn’t have cheated him in this. Wouldn’t have
given him an impossible task to solve. Though her reasons eluded him,
she desired to know the secret of his abilities – and its limits – just
as sorely as he did. Perhaps more, he sometimes thought. There was
little that woman wouldn’t do to achieve her goals, and Detan had his
boundaries.
   He let the three globes fill his mind. Held them like shining stars in
the dark, fireflies disrupting the wave of his sense reaching out from
the center of his being. Five strides away, six, and five again. Three
points of a triangle of which he was the heart, the center, the core of
destruction. He held them all, turned them over. Compared them not to
his memory but to each other. Equal in size, Aella would have made sure
of that. But one… One felt denser, somehow, crammed tight, bulging
against the seams with eager gluttony. He discarded it.
   The second and third hung in his mind now, and he imagined a bright line
of light bridging them as he weighed them against each other, sought new
methods of comparison. Aella would not have made the trick so obvious as
to pack two of the globes tight-full. Or would she? Devious creature
that she was… He jettisoned the thought. Nothing to be gained down
that path, nothing at all. Aella’s psychology wasn’t what he was trying
to figure out. This wasn’t game theory, this wasn’t a gambling hand. He
either had the flavor of the globe, or he didn’t. And if he didn’t, some
poor woman would die.
   Some woman who had helped Ripka. Saved her life, most probably, when the
Remnant was boiling with riot over the rumor of a blue coat in their
midst. Her face filled his mind, the harsh regard of her stare when he
said something irritating a warm balm. He pushed her away. This wasn’t
about her. Wasn’t about Tibs or his Auntie or New Chum or any other soul
that had the misfortune of having earned his affections.
   Focus. Weigh the two. Feel them out. Identical in density, or as near as
could be achieved by human hands and talents. He suspected that if he
dug deeper, if he reached into that miniscule level of the world that
bare eyes couldn’t see – that he only glimpsed when the injections were
fresh in his veins – that he might find a difference otherwise
undetectable. Nothing intentional though, unless Aella had much more
refined sensitives hanging around here who he had yet to meet.
   She didn’t have that. But she knew he could push himself that way. Had
been trying to make it second nature to him. An idea struck. Stoking the
coals of his rage, banking them to keep them hot, he focused in on one
sphere and reached for those fine particles. Nothing. He turned his
attention to the other. Imagined what he was looking for like dust in
the air, drifting, invisible until the glint of sun hits just right.
Imagined his anger as that light, his rage the source of that sun.
   Found what he was looking for, in miniscule amounts, woven into the
fabric of the bladder’s interior in tiny pockets, like quilting. Like
what Pelkaia’d done to Ripka’s jacket so she’d always know where she
was.
   Detan didn’t hesitate. He flared his anger, directed it into those tiny
pockets. Heard a whoosh and a cry and a gasp. Aella – for who else could
it be? – clapped for joy.
   “Welldone,” she cooed as she yanked the bag off his head. He looked
around, blinking, came up out of his meditative stupor to discover his
legs cramped, his head pounding, his feet two clumps of tingling, limp
meat. A great maw of hunger crooned in his belly, and his mouth was
thick with dryness.
   Forge and Clink eyed him like a rockviper that’d suddenly reared up and
started hissing. They held their intact globes gingerly, away from their
bodies as if that’d do any good at all. In one corner of the room, a
smear of soot marred the wall, charred fragments of leather curling on
the ground.
   “How long?” he asked, and had to stop to cough and lick some moisture
into his lips.
   “Only seven marks.” Aella beamed, proud. “Impressive for a first try.”
   Seven marks. When Aella’d first dragged him into this room for his daily
testing his belly had been warm with breakfast and his eyes dry against
the rising sun. That sun was gone, now. Hidden behind the curve of the
world for a mark or two at least. Gingerly, he unfolded his legs and
winced as the blood flowed back to his feet. Felt like he’d stomped all
over a cactus, but at least he could still feel something.
   “Did he do that?” Clink demanded, thrusting a finger at the fiery smear.
   Detan forced himself to crawl to wobbly feet. Misol was beside him in an
instant, propping him up. He almost laughed. Couldn’t let the
merchandise get any more damaged than required.
   “I did that,” he confirmed, watching her eyes widen and her nostrils
flare.
   “Sweet skies,” Forge murmured.
   Detan drew himself up and turned to Aella.“Feed them. Shelter them
here, in the yellowhouse. They’ve earned that much.”
   “Yes, yes,” she said, waving a dismissive hand. “Skies know we have the
room. And I’ll need them close at hand for further testing. I wonder if
we could shave a mark off your time on the next attempt.”
   He winced at the thought. Seven marks. Seven long marks sitting on that
floor in nothing but his pants and his sweat, huddled up under that sack
on his head and thinking, thinking. It had felt like only moments to
him. He’d have been surprised to hear it’d been a single mark, let alone
seven. How could he ever become effectual, and safe, if it took him so
long to master himself, to gain control? A man who takes seven marks to
fire an arrow at his enemy is a dead man.
   “Problem with that,” Misol said. “A letter came for you around mark
four, Miss Ward. I looked to see how urgent it was, and figured it could
wait until this was finished, but you’d better see for yourself.”
   Misol passed Aella an envelope with a broken wax seal Detan recognized
as Thratia’s. His stomach dropped. Nothing Thratia had to say to Aella
could be any good. The girl’s eyes flicked over the missive, a faint
tension thinned her lips. With a sigh she snapped the paper shut,
propped her hands on her hips, and set a heavy glare on Detan. He met
her gaze, calm and easy. After seven marks rooting around in his own
head, that girl didn’t much disturb him any more. He’d seen darker
things.
   “Thratia requests the Lord Honding’s presence in Aransa. In all haste.”
   “For what purpose?” he asked.
   She rolled her bony shoulders.“No idea. But I jump when called, don’t
I? Misol, pack up, we leave in the morning.”
   Misol eyed Forge and Clink.“And these two?”
   “Oh. Bring them along. Why not? I suppose we can get some work done
along the way. And pick out whoever you need to help you handle the
lot.”
   “Yes, Miss Ward.”
   Detan swallowed. He’d seen darker things than Aella’s glare, that was
true, but a whole lot of them had to do with Thratia Ganal.
   Chapter Four
   Ripka gawped. Couldn’t help herself. All these years she’d come to know
Tibal, and his last name had never been mentioned – not once. She’d
assumed the lack a simple refusal on Tibal’s part to acknowledge his
patronage, and hadn’t dug much deeper. She knew his past had been
fraught with violence and hunger, known that even though he’d been
press-ganged into joining the Fleet, he’d welcomed the steady meal
schedule. And then he’d left, he’d retired from Fleet work and returned
to his hometown where he’d worked on airships and any other old thing he
could fix up until Detan had strolled along.
   Not once. Not once in all their back-and-forth had either Detan or Tibal
let slip that Tibal was a Honding himself. Pits below, but Tibal had
often ribbed Detan for being of noble blood. Did Detan know?
   Pelkaia went quiet, staring at Tibal like she’d plucked a flower and
found an angry spider inside. It wasn’t that Pelkaia feared Tibal, Ripka
wasn’t fool enough to think that. No, she knew real well what had to be
running through Pelkaia’s mind, and it wasn’t pretty. She would be
wondering, as Ripka was, just how close those familial ties were. Tibal
had once told Ripka he and Detan had tempers like two pieces of a
puzzle, similar in strength but different in expression – complements to
each other, and it was too hard to tell which was more dangerous. She’d
never seen him reach for selium, never seen him manipulate it, butthat
was no guarantee he didn’t know how.
   “Name’s Tibal,” he said slowly. “And I did what you asked of me. Not my
fault your nephew’s a man who can’t ever tell what’s good for him. Ran
off to join Thratia, he did. Bent knee right down before Thratia’s
pits-cursed whitecoat and damned near kissed her slippers. You want to
know where your nephew is? You send a letter along to Thratia, I’m sure
she’d be delighted to let you know how well they’re all getting along
now. But I don’t want to hear it, understand? Detan’s his own man. He’s
made that clear enough.”
   “You lost him.” Tibal was too wound up to see it, but there was such
profound sadness in Dame Honding’s voice, lurking just there at the
edges, simmering below the surface, that Ripka’s heart actually ached
for the spear of a woman.
   “He lost his own self. You need me for anything that matters, Dame, you
know where I’ll be.”
   “Your mother–”
   Tibal raised a hand to cut her off.“You’re a woman of your word, Dame.
I know you won’t let an old woman starve because her bastard son lost
someone else’s.”
   “That is not what I meant,” she snapped. Whatever stoop age had lent to
her back disappeared as she straightened up, and Ripka had the distinct
impression that she was shouldering the weight of the crest carved into
the wall behind her. “Your mother vouched for your heritage, and your
father has not disowned you, absent though he may have been. If you have
lost my heir, then you are next in line.”
   “You want to stick that brand on me, Dame, you’re gonna have to find a
whole battalion willing to hold me down.”
   Tibal stomped off like he owned the place, took a turn he obviously knew
well and disappeared down another hallway. Ripka choked on questions,
sorted them, and realized she’d have to wait to deal with Tibal. Nouli
was on board theLarkspur, awaiting permission to set up shop here,
and Ripka was his advocate.
   Into the silence that stretched behind Tibal’s leaving, she said, “Dame,
forgive me, but I believe Detan sacrificed his freedom to Thratia.”
   Her shoulders twitched, her gaze snapping from the direction Tibal had
taken, back to Ripka.“Dear girl, do not attempt to soothe me on his
behalf. I will discover my nephew’s intentions in due time.”
   “I have evidence of his loyalty to you with me, now, on theLarkspur.
He arranged for the rescue of Nouli Bern, the engineer who built the
Century Gates of Valathea, from the Remnant prison– and has entreated
him to serve for Hond Steading’s defense.”
   A curl tipped up the corner of her lips. The same crooked smile Detan
put on before he was about to tell a particularly large lie.“My nephew
did all of that?”
   “He arranged for it.”
   She shook her head, smile locked in place.“I see. Well, it is
something, at least. Bring this Master Bern to me and I will arrange
rooms for him. I suppose he needs a workshop and materials?” Ripka
nodded. “Very well. Though I cannot see how much help he will be on the
balance.”
   “He has intimate knowledge of many machines of war, and Commodore
Ganal’s tactics.”
   “I’m sure he does, my dear, but Valathea comes to Hond Steading’s aid.
His efforts will be appreciated, in concert with theirs.”
   Ripka’s throat went dry. “What do you mean?”
   “A delegation from Valathea arrives tonight to discuss the city’s
defense.”
   “Those people tortured your nephew.” The words tumbled out before she
could stop them, hot with anger. Pelkaia cleared her throat, and Ripka
realized she’d taken a step forward without meaning to.
   Dame Honding’s head jerked back, her eyes narrowed. “I respect your
work, Captain Leshe, but Hond Steading is not your city to protect. It
is mine. This is an era of alliances. One cannot stand alone on the
Scorched. Not with Thratia Ganal running wild across it.”
   Chapter Five
   Monsoon season made its presence known with a toothy growl. Sticky winds
rocked the transport ship Aella had commandeered for their travel,
pitching the deck to and fro. Detan hunkered by the cabins, his ass on
the deck and his back shoved against the wall, head in his hands. He
wasn’t sure what was more nauseating, the buck of the ship or the
incompetence of the pilot.
   “It’s not that bad,” Misol said. She leaned her back against the
deck-rail with her elbows propped up on it, head tipped back to feel the
full extent of the winds. Droplets of moisture collected on her bald
head, making it gleam. Not a hint of green marred her cheeks, the bitch.
   “Trust me, it’s worse when you know everything the pilot is doing
wrong.”
   “Didn’t think you had a perfectionist nature.”
   “My dear woman, there are some disciplines in which I will not put up
with sloppiness: the piloting of airships, the brewing of ale, and
making love to women.”
   “What about making love to men?”
   “Haven’t yet had the pleasure.”
   “Pity for you.” She picked at her teeth with one thick thumbnail. “Too
bad you skipped dinner. Aella may not be much for domestics, but the
girl can cook.”
   “Of course she can. How else would she know what meals pair best with
which poisons?”
   “Aww, she’s not that bad, either.”
   “You weren’t the one tied to a ceiling with a bag over your head.”
   “Not my fault my deviation doesn’t require that sort of training, and it
ain’t Aella’s fault either. You don’t like what you gotta do, blame
yourself.”
   “I hardly see how it’s my fault.”
   “Don’t you?” Misol whistled low and slow, then shook her head. “I know
you’re not stupid, but sometimes I wonder if you might be blind. You
think Aella had to wrap me up in chains to get me to figure out how to
make my face look like a man’s?”
   “I’m not exactly free here, Misol.”
   She snorted.“Sure you are. Got that crap in your veins leashing you,
but both Aella and I figure you could probably whip up your own brew if
you really put your mind to it. It’s not to keep you close, anyway, it’s
more to help you with your training. Skies above, you think I’m watching
you because we’re afraid you’ll run? I’m just along to be an extra set
of hands – and keep an eye on Forge and Clink, now. Aella’s got no worry
you’ll bolt.”
   “If I left–”
   “She’d do what? Hunt down that little friend of yours? Girl’s got no
time for that bullshit. She’d come after you, sure, but she’d come with
an offer in hand and it wouldn’t be chains. She wants you compliant.
Makes it easier when she’s got to rile you up, you know she’s just
working to figure out what you can do – not being mean for the sake of
it.”
   “That girl’s cold as a glacier. You expect me to believe she’s not
taking at least a little pleasure in this?”
   “Pleasure? Maybe, I don’t know. But if she’s getting any joy out of this
it’s not because she’s putting the heat to your toes, it’s because she’s
getting answers for once. It was harder for her, trying to pin down her
theory when it was just us regular deviants. Not a lot to suss out in
people like me and that blue guy. But you? You’re malleable, and quick
to change. It’s that quickness that she’s counting on.”
   “Took me seven marks to figure out her last puzzle. Ain’t quick by any
stretch.”
   Misol sighed as if she were trying to explain herself to a particularly
slow child.“Stay with me now. You got a temper in you, don’t you? Keep
it locked down with jokes and other bullshit but you’ve got a streak in
you hotter than a firemount flow. That right?”
   He shifted, the scars of his back hot against the wall.“I got a handle
on it.”
   “More or less. Don’t matter how hard you squeeze it down, it’s still in
there. And when you touch sel, if you’re not careful, you make things
burn right up with the heat of that anger.
   “Now, take me. I’m a doppel, I can change my face around anyway I’d like
using sel. All my life I had a hard time trying to decide what I wanted
to be. Spent some time farming, some time bartending, and a half dozen
other things before I picked up the spear and Aella stumbled across me.
Things starting to look clear?”
   “Doesn’t hold up. You call yourself a doppel, but that’s Valathea’s
word. I knew a woman like you – called herself an illusionist – was
Catari through and through. Could do a whole pits-lot more than just
change her face, and didn’t have to mess about shaving her head, either.
She made the hair she had work.”
   Misol whistled again.“Musta’ been real good, and I wonder what her
personality was like, but she’s not here to test, so that ain’t the
point. Look at Callia. I didn’t know her before her accident, but she’s
got a deviation almost as rare as yours. She can do this twisting thing
– make anyone manipulating sel feel like it’s perverted, disgusting. She
makes it feel like raw corruption, like chugging a flask of rotten
water. Now, woman like that musta been a real piece of work when she had
her wits about her, but look what it did for her. She survived that
poisoning, maybe even thrived from it. There’s not another body alive I
know of that could take the dose Aella said Callia consumed and come out
the other side alive. It’s like her body welcomed it, sucked it up like
a sponge. She’s rotten all through, and thrives on it.”
   “I’ll give you that Callia’s rotten, but what about Aella? That girl’s
cold as a night is long, but she can’t make sel feel cold. Can only shut
it down.”
   “You got your metaphor confused with reality there, Honding. She ain’t
cold – she’sempty. Cultivates indifference like it’s a sport and
she’s its top athlete. Doesn’t feel a damned thing, half the time. You
watch her react to something. She always takes an extra beat, this
little hesitation while she figures out what reaction she wants to have
that’ll get her the result she wants.”
   “What in the pits does that have to do with me?”
   “You really don’t get it, do you?” She rubbed her fuzzed scalp with one
hand. “If she can teach you to be calm, to douse your temper, and still
control the flame you wield? Then maybe she could try to feel again,
without fear of losing the talent that defines her very existence.”
   Aella marched toward them, a forced smile on her face, slippered feet
scuffing the deck in the unsteady gait of those who weren’t used to
airships – as if their feet being in contact with the wood at all times
would keep them from flying off.
   “We will reach Aransa before nightfall,” Aella said. “I haven’t a clue
why Thratia wants you, but if she’s going to make use of you then I
won’t have you embarrass me with ineptitude.”
   “Wouldn’t that be a disaster,” he drawled.
   She fixed him with a narrowed gaze and clasped her hands to her hips.“Get up, now, and come along. We’ve some time yet to put you through
your paces before we reach the city.”
   Detan groaned.“I still say my practicing on a live, selium-bloated ship
is a terrible idea. A better test of my refinement, I’m sure, would be
to relieve the poor pilot of his post for just a while.”
   She slashed a hand through the air.“You’re not flying this ship,
Honding, though I suppose there’s something to be said for your
enthusiasm.”
   “Only thing I’m enthused about is not throwing up on my shoes. Where’d
you find this pilot, anyway? Couldn’t be a Fleetie.”
   Aella fixed him with a scowl.“Stop attempting to distract me. You’re
overdue for a dose, and I want to test your fine control while you’re
waning.”
   Detan looked at her. Really, really looked, since the first time he’d
seen her sitting barefoot on a barrel aboard Callia’s ship. She was just
as neat as ever, her clothes finely made and the seams perfectly
pressed, the colors all working together to harmonize with her natural
hues. The white coat smoothing out her silhouette was jarring, sure, but
she wore it with confidence, like it was armor, the pockets heavy with
the tools of her trade. She coiled her hair up tight against her head,
and plucked every stray strand from her youth-dewy face.
   She gave the impression of total control, everything in its right place,
nothing out of line or harmony. She was, Detan realized with a start, a
walking doll. And she’d done it to herself. Even the annoyed creases
between her brows were false. There was an aloofness in her eyes he’d
always ascribed to the same flippancy he felt most of the time, but, no.
Her detachment was something deeper, everything about her exterior a
carefully planned and executed show. He felt a little sorry for her,
then realized it didn’t matter. She wouldn’t be able to relate to his
sympathy anyway.
   “Come on,” she said, tapping her foot with calculated impatience.
   Misol was watching him. He met her eye, and nodded understanding even as
he grunted and levered himself to his feet.“Bank your coals, girl, I’m
coming. Things are stiffer than they used to be.”
   The scar tissue on his back pulled, the length of his forearm itched
with raw puncture wounds. There was an ache in his joints that’d never
been there before, a radial warmth that both worried and distracted him.
He’d lost both his parents to bonewither. He knew too well it was a
sorry way to die.
   “Say, Aella,” he said, as he stretched out and followed her back toward
the cabin she’d commandeered for research purposes. “You think all this
messing with sel, and the injections, could speed up the onset of
bonewither?”
   Aella flicked the needle of her syringe with one finger, watching the
little bubbles within burst and sputter. She glanced up at him over the
point of steel, brows pinched, and shrugged.“Oh. Definitely. Now sit
down on that bench. I want to see if you can identify all the sources of
sel on the ship before we renew your injection.”
   Wonderful, he thought, and closed his eyes, reaching for his sense
slowly, carefully. Ignoring that bright, magma-hot vein of anger that
threaded through everything he’d ever been. Forced himself to forget the
face of his mother, sunken as her cheekbones dissolved, even as he
touched all the sources of sel on the ship with his mind.
   Drone-like, he began to count them off, and wondered if Aella suspected
he knew her secret fear.
   Chapter Six
   Ripka had no job to do. She paced the streets of Hond Steading, peeking
in dark alleys, warning citizens of unsecured money pouches that would
make for easy picking. The streets of the city twisted all around her,
the natural sprawl of a city that grew up around itself; unplanned,
unshepherded. Hond Steading’s rapid growth in its early days had left it
a scattered division of neighborhoods, dead ends, and narrow roads that
were once little more than goat paths.
   The meander of the streets made her jumpy, expecting bad neighborhoods
around every corner. For all Aransa’s flaws, the stepped nature of her
home lent it to easy division – a blessing and a curse. With class
barriers entrenched, the lines where trouble brewed grew clearer. Made
her job easier, in theory. But it’d made her watchers lazier, too. At
the end of the day, when a crime had been committed, she knew full well
her watchers were more likely to go poking around for evidence in the
nearest adjoining poor quarter. In her long experience, the vast
majority of offenses were committed by those who knew the victim. The
division, the poor quarters, just made for easy scapegoats.
   As much as Hond Steading unnerved her, a semblance of order emerged as
she stalked its winding streets. The city was not a sloppy mishmash, as
she had originally thought. Its subtle melding and gradation of culture
and class fascinated Ripka. So many here. So many pushed up against each
other, but not drawing hard lines in rock and sand. However the Hondings
had managed to foster this sense of togetherness, she admired them.
   The more she walked the dusty streets, scents of honey and cactus and
crisp-skinned goat heavy on the air, the more she began to see the
city’s twisting paths as a benefit to their defense. Thratia would be
just as thrown as Ripka had been upon arrival in the city. The
hodgepodge nature of Hond Steading was unique on the Scorched, where
most cities were laid out to best facilitate the mining of their
firemounts. Hond Steading had beenthe first – organic in its growth,
massive in its current scale. For any soldiers Thratia managed to bend
to her banner, they would be Scorched-born, used to well-ordered streets
and clear hard lines. Dealing with Hond Steading would not be an easy
shift for them.
   Ripka turned hard on her heel, angling back up the dusty road she’d
wandered down toward the Honding palace. Nouli, for all he was clever,
was Valathean born and raised. His tactics would focus on the clear,
hard lines of the Scorched cities he knew well. And because he was too
unwell to wander the streets himself, Ripka had to be his eyes and ears.
Had to lethim know what she’d observed.
   It was a purpose she could serve well, and it added a little spring to
her step.
   As she looped up a curving side street toward a stone-laid thoroughfare,
a blue-coated woman stepped into her path. Ripka stopped short,
startled. A watcher. The woman had the weather-beaten appearance of one
who roamed an outdoor beat, her age made difficult to discern by the
sun-bitten wrinkles at the corners of her eyes.
   Ripka’d never been stopped by a watcher before. She felt naked without
her own blue coat, and tugged self-consciously at the long caramel
sleeves of the tunic Pelkaia had loaned her. She’d have to buy new
clothes, soon. Clothes meant not to fit underneath a layer of blue.
   “Good morning, watcher,” she said.
   The watcher’s smile grew a little wider. “Good morning, Captain Leshe.”
   Ripka stood straighter.“Miss Leshe is appropriate, please.”
   “If you insist. Have you been enjoying our fair city?”
   Ripka bit her tongue to keep from divulging all her revelations. The
watcher was after small talk, not a detailed evaluation of the city’s
civic planning. “It is blessedly cooler than Aransa, without being as
cold as–” She cut herself off just short of saying the Remnant. “Some
southern cities I’ve visited.”
   “We do partake of the Darkling Sea’s breezes during monsoon season, but
I’m sure you’ve realized a discussion of the weather isn’t why I stopped
to chat with you.”
   Indignation and fascination warred within Ripka. So this was what it was
like to be on the other end of being suspected of mischief in a
watcher-controlled city. Fascinating.“Have I done something wrong?”
   “Not as such. My captain has sent me to fetch you, to discuss your
continued presence in Hond Steading.”
   “Dame Honding has given me her blessing.”
   “We understand. Would you come with me, please?” She spoke in the
well-practiced tone that gave the polite illusion of question without
being an outright command. For just a moment Ripka was tempted to tell
her off, return to the palace and complain to the Dame that her watchers
had for some reason not gotten the message that Ripka was welcome in
their city.
   But Ripka’d never been one to hide under another’s authority. And
besides, her curiosity was well and truly piqued. The watch could very
well be a deciding force in the city’s defense. If she could bend this
captain’s ear, make him see reason and urge his working with Nouli… So
many possibilities unspooled within her mind that she caught herself
grinning, wiped it away, and gave the watcher what she hoped was a
respectful nod.
   “Please, lead the way.”
   The watcher wasted no time. They cut through the city at a crisp
near-jog, Ripka struggling to memorize all the twists and turns.
   The watcher delivered Ripka, breath coming a little quickly due to the
pace, to the front doors of the station house and bade her enter and ask
for the captain– she was expected – then disappeared back into the city
to see to her other tasks.
   Ripka forced a deep breath, and steeled herself. Too long on the Remnant
had made her jumpy, wary of imprisonment of any kind. She was fine. Even
if things went wrong here, Enard knew she’d gone out walking. With Dame
Honding’s power behind him, it wouldn’t take him long to discover where
she was being held.
   Curiosity overrode caution, and she shoved the station house door open.
A large room splayed out before her, high of ceiling and brightly lit
with dozens of gleaming oil-fed candelabras. The grandeur of Valathea’s
aesthetics infused the room’s size and scale, but the austerity she’d
seen on display at the Honding palace was present as well. Every stick
of furniture was needed, every piece well-made, if a little worn from
use.
   Ripka caught herself doing an inspection– cleanliness of the floors,
easy access to a restraints cage – and stopped. This wasn’t her station
house. This wasn’t why she was here.
   Watchers buzzed through the room, files tucked under arms or prisoners
ushered before them. A few harried citizens sat at tables, distressed
and talking with their assigned watcher. Everything, so far as she could
tell, seemed in order here. Running smoothly.
   With a pleased smile, she stepped up to the room’s primary desk and
addressed the sharp young man standing at ease there.
   “I’m here to see your watch-captain.”
   Surprise registered, but was gone in a flash.“I see. Do you have an
appointment?”
   “I might. One of your watchers collected me and told me he wished to see
me.” As she spoke, she realized how ridiculous the story sounded. She
didn’t even know the watch-captain’s name, let alone the name of the
watcher who’d corralled her here. Ripka’s stomach soured as the young
man’s face grew tight with confusion. That watcher could have very
easily been playing a prank on her, making the disgraced watch-captain
feel important, then ripping the rug out. She might be making a fool of
herself. She cleared her throat and started again. “My name is Ripka
Leshe.”
   “Oh,” the man said. “My apologies. I didn’t think they’d find you so
soon. Please, follow me.”
   The watcher opened a door and stepped aside so that she could pass.
Laughter rolled out, young and bright. Ripka stepped into the well-lit
room and blinked. A man sat behind a desk, shirtsleeves rolled to his
elbows and a spatter of grey in his short-cropped hair. She marked him
in his forties, and the young girl sitting on his shoulders at five,
maybe six. The girl grinned at Ripka, revealing a wide gap where a front
tooth should be, and the older man looked a touch embarrassed.
   The air smelled of clean oil and fresh ink, the floor beneath her feet
was swept clean and all the furniture polished to a high shine. If ever
there existed an office meant to be the complete opposite of the Remnant
Warden, Radu Baset’s, this was it.
   “I’m Kalliah,” the little girl said.
   “Am I interrupting…? Ripka asked.
   “No, no, not at all.” The man swung Kalliah from his shoulders with ease
and the girl whooped. “Watcher Yethon, please take Kalliah to her
mother. She’s probably worried sick.”
   “Any idea where she’s at?” the watcher asked, taking Kalliah’s hand and
leading her toward the door.
   “Swimming at the hole, more than like.”
   Kalliah brightened.“Can I go swimming too?”
   “Only if your mother says you can.”
   “Yay!” Kalliah dragged her watcher escort behind her like a kite. The
man sat back down behind his desk with a rueful laugh.
   “I apologize, miss. She gets away from her mother sometimes, but always
to come to see me. Could be worse acts of escape, I suppose. Now, what
can I do for you? Did we have an appointment?”
   “I’m not sure,” she confessed. “One of your watchers asked me to come
see you. I am Ripka Leshe, formerly of the Aransa watch.”
   “Captain Leshe!” The man was on his feet in an instant. He rounded the
desk and held her hand in his before she could blink. He shook it like
it had something foul on it he was trying to kick clean, a huge smile
splitting his face. “I should have known, shouldn’t I? Sit, sit, please,
can I get you a drink?”
   He was gone as soon as he’d come, disappearing back behind his desk to
rummage through a drawer that produced the telltale clink of bottles.
Feeling like she’d just been swept up in a monsoon wind, she took the
chair opposite his desk and sat. It didn’t even creak.
   “No thank you, Captain…?”
   “Lakon. Falston Lakon. I’d say you could call me Falston, but Lakon’s
less of a mouthful on the balance. Are you sure you won’t drink? I’ve
fizzed Erst Pear juice, new stuff, no booze in it if that’s what you’re
worried about.”
   “I’ll try the juice, thank you, Lakon.”
   He produced two glazed clay cups half-full with something sweet and
fizzy. As the bubbles popped against her tongue, she recognized the
bitter-tannic taste of selium bubbles. Before he could throw another
flurry of conversation at her, she gathered herself.
   “Captain, I apologize if I’ve done anything to disturb your watchers. I
understand the presence of another captain – even though I’ve lost my
post – can be worrisome to some watchers. I mean no harm to you or your
organization.”
   He chuckled.“They hide it well, but my people are all in a tizzy that
you’re here. The Dame sent me a letter last night to say you’d arrived
and would be staying at the palace indefinitely. Of course she didn’t
seal the pits-cursed note, so half the station knew about it by morning
and the other half by midday. There’s no worse gossipmonger than a
watcher.
   “When we started getting reports of a plain-clothes woman roaming the
city, acting suspicious by checking out dark alleys and warning citizens
against easily stealable items, well, I confess there was a bit of a
betting pool on who would find you first – I guess Halka won. She’ll be
insufferable about it.
   “You really riled up the populace, you know. It’s one thing to be told
to mind your goods by a watcher, but when a perfectly sane and
healthy-looking woman comes up to you and tells you the same it really
puts the wind up these desert flowers. The High Ridge Ladies’ Club is
all afuss – theythink it’s some grand conspiracy, though skies know
what the conspiracy they’ve dreamed up is for. You’ve caused quite the
stir in the city, Captain Leshe.”
   “Please, call me Ripka. I apologize for frightening your citizens; that
really wasn’t my intention.”
   He held up a hand to forestall her.“You misunderstand me. I’mglad
you did. This city has been too cursed safe, and all the older
generation are set in their ways, not thinking at all that anyone could
dare do anything to harm them, or steal from them. But Hond Steading’s
getting big, and with the refugee problem spilling over from Aransa and
some of the smaller cities Thratia’s people have been snatching up in
her name, well, desperate people are here. They’re hungry and they’re
scared and our regular populace just doesn’t know how to deal with it.
I’m glad you scared ‘em a bit. Maybe they’ll watch themselves now.”
   “You’ve a refugee problem?” she asked, embarrassment buried beneath
professional interest. He grinned like a man who’d just snagged a fish
on a hook.
   “‘Fraid so. I know you did the best you could for Aransa – please don’t
think I’m disparaging you for what happened there – but the fact is
Thratia’s takeover wasn’t as complete as she thought. People got scared,
they ran, and there aren’t a lot of places to run to on the Scorched,
you know? Lots of them came here, looking for new lives – or at the very
least safety. And the Dame is a kind soul, beneath all that iron she
carries around her, so she let them in with open arms, started training
programs for them to get jobs in spots we’re lacking here in the city.
But there’s just so many, and every day the numbers grow. We could shut
‘em out, it’s been discussed, but the Dame doesn’t want them to die in
the desert on their own. And anyway, they’ve got nowhere else to go.
They’d likely camp on our doorstep, and just get absorbed into Thratia’s
army when itarrives. None of us want to see them turned into cannon
fodder, even if they are kicking up a spot of trouble here and there.
   “We suspect some of Thratia’s supporters are getting through too, of
course, but there’s no real way to tell. Nothing to tie them together,
if you know what I mean. But we’ve found a bunch of her trash kicking
around the city. Posters, leaflets, things like that. I’ll hand it to
the old girl, she knows how to write a piece of propaganda.”
   Ripka remembered stacks of crates, loaded with liqueur and weapons.
She’d discovered them too late – the weapons had already been
distributed throughout the city. Though she doubted Thratia would risk
using the liqueur as her cover again, she thought it a safe bet that the
method would be more or less the same. And here, in Hond Steading, she
had time. They were in the early days of Thratia’s aggression here; she
hadn’t come knocking yet. If Ripka was lucky, she could poison the roots
of Thratia’s uprising before they ever took hold.
   “I don’t mean to be presumptuous,” she said carefully, watching Lakon’s
expression with every word. “But I have some experience with Thratia’s
techniques. If you’d allow me to consult you on these matters, I think
we could puzzle out what keeps her people connected here in your city.”
   Lakon grinned and drained his glass.“I was hoping you’d say that.
Consider yourself hired, Captain, though the issue of rank might be a
tricky one.”
   She waved him off.“No. I won’t wear the blues again. But I will help
you as best as I can.”
   “As some sort of private watcher?”
   She shrugged.“Think of it as undercover work. People may know my
reputation, but they don’t know my face, and looks are an easy enough
thing to alter anyway.”
   “Hmm. I like it. Where would you start, though? You’ve hardly been a day
in the city. I suppose I’ll have to give you a tour.”
   Ripka leaned forward and set her empty cup down, eyes bright and a new
intensity burning in her chest.“Tell me, have there been any new food
or drink crazes in your city lately?”
   Chapter Seven
   Pelkaia lay dying. Every bone in her body ached. Every pore of her skin
bled hot sweat into the fine linen of her sheets. The steady thrum of
her heart was a stutter-stop drumbeat in her chest, marching her to her
grave.
   She twisted, feeling her back peel away from the sweat-puddle it had
left throughout the night, the fresh air a blessed, cool kiss over her
heat-tired skin. Movement sapped her strength, made her limbs shaky with
exhaustion. Fingers jittery, she reached to the trunk bolted alongside
her bed, slumping, fumbling with the catch.
   So early. Sunlight slanted like blades across her cabin floor, pressed
at her eyes and made her vision milky– no, that wasn’t the light. Old
eyes. Old, stupid, failing eyes.
   Been alive too long. Been moving and breathing and fucking and fighting
longer than she’d had any right to. Even of the long-lived Catari,
Pelkaia was an anomaly. Must be. Couldn’t even imagine the whole of her
people stumbling through old age like this, wretched as she was.
   How many years? Her fingertips brushed familiar bottles, body going
through the motions even while her mind wandered down old, dusty
hallways of memory. Really– how many years? How many children raised
and, halfbreeds that they were, left to the dust? Except Kel. Sweet Kel.
He’d died before his youth was through, died to hide Thratia’s plans.
   She pulled stoppers with her teeth, drank bitter concoctions she hardly
remembered the names of. Every morning, she forgot them. By night they’d
be back again, filling up the empty spaces that now echoed in her brain.
Full formulas, names, methods of growing the plants to make them. Each
one was bitter, acerbic. A healthy throat would have rebelled at their
abuse, but hers was long past healthy.
   Ritual complete, she dropped the last of the bottles into place and
flopped back into bed, arms splayed, feeling the potions that would be
poison to any other body course through her. Eyes half-closed, she
imagined them filling her veins, replacing her blood, re-inflating her
vitality. Stolen time. That was all she had left, now.
   But a little bit of stolen time might just be enough to do some good.
   Or punish some wrongs.
   The cabin door banged open, and she was amused to realize she remembered
the sound. Coming back up, now, she thought. Raising herself from the
dead. Her skin was growing cooler, almost clammy, the sweat that
sheathed her turning into chilly condensation. She cracked an eye, saw
her vision clear, then risked cracking the other. Took a breath, and
noted her lungs inflated fully.
   Functional, then. At least for another day.
   “Pell?”
   Oh. Right. Coss. She’d been so busy raising herself from near-death
she’d forgotten he came in to wake her every morning. Well, ostensibly
to wake her. She suspected he insisted on barging in as soon as the sun
was up to make sure she was still alive.
   “I’m here,” she said, which was a rather stupid thing to say because,
really, where else would she be?
   “I see that.” His voice was soft, amused. Not long ago that voice had
made her knees weak. It still made her head swim, her heart thump, if
she were being honest with herself.
   But that was before she started dying. She’d had to kick him out of her
room, then. Couldn’t let your lover see you rot from the inside out.
Poor dear thought he’d done something wrong. Probably thought Pelkaia
was drinking herself to death, or something, with all the bottles she
kept locked up in her room. She almost giggled at the thought, then
remembered she had company.
   “Give me a hand?” she asked, after she moved to swing her legs over the
bed’s edge and realized they weren’t quite ready to obey her yet.
   Coss was at her side in an instant, his big hand enfolding hers while he
slipped the other behind her back, between her shoulder blades where the
sweat was still thick, and helped her upright. Either he didn’t notice,
or he pretended not to, when her legs thumped weakly over the edge of
the bed, heels dragging on the floor.
   Gods below the dunes, but the worry in his eyes almost broke her faster
than the age taking its dues on her organs.
   “Are you well?” he asked, which seemed a stupid question, because
obviously she wasn’t.
   “Stomach upset,” she lied easily, giving him a lopsided smile as she
pushed a sweat-damp chunk of hair off her forehead. No one ever asked
detailed questions about stomach troubles.
   Except Coss, apparently.“What did you eat last night?”
   She sighed and rolled her eyes, wiggling her fingers to get the feeling
back in them.“Same thing as everyone else, just didn’t take well to
me.”
   The look he gave her was clear enough. He thought she was full of
donkeyshit. Which she was, but that wasn’t any of his business.
   As clarity seeped back into her overheated mind, she began to realize
just what was wrong with this scene. Why Coss was seeing her so weak and
shaking when she’d taken great pains to push him away from this, away
from the truth of what was eating her up inside. Coss came to her every
morning, sure, but after she’d raised herself from the dead. After she’d
had her bath and her elixirs and had a moment to sit just breathing,
gathering herself againstthe plain exertion of living.
   Essi. Little pouf-headed Essi was supposed to bring her a bucket to wash
with in the morning, supposed to knock on the door to raise her from her
sleep long before the sun got high enough to glare through her window
like it was doing now. Pelkaia blinked, taking in the room through
clearing eyes. There was the bucket, full up to the brim by the shut
door. But no Essi. And here was Coss. Frowning at her like he’d said
something and she hadn’t answered. Probably the truth, that. She forced
herself to focus. She was the captain of this ship, and a protocol she’d
initiated had been broken. Find out the reason. Find out why Coss was
looking at her like he’d seen a ghost, when he wasn’t meant to realize
she was teetering on the edge of the pits until she’d fallen into the
dark of them.
   “Where’s Essi? Why did she not wake me?” And, unspoken,why are you
here now? But she didn’t need to explain that. He knew her well enough
to scrape the meaning from the surface of her words.
   “Essi hollered at your door for a half-mark before Jeffin came and got
me. Thought you were dead.”
   She was, of course; the timing just hadn’t quite caught up with her yet.
But that wasn’t any of his business. “So you decided to let yourself in.
Without permission.”
   His expression locked down. Well, as locked down as he could make it.
Even stoic, practical Coss couldn’t hide his feelings from her. She’d
spent too long making a study of faces, the way they ticked away every
emotional beat coursing through a person. It was what she was. Doppel.
No, that wasn’t right. Illusionist. Yes. Better.
   “I thought you were ill and needed assistance.” He gave her a slow look,
making a point of taking in her still-trembling limbs and the
human-shaped imprint of sweat on her sheets. Just as she didn’t need to
say everything she was thinking to get her meaning across, neither did
he. What a sweet pair they’d made. She missed that. Missed him filling
in the blanks of what she didn’t say, missed him supporting her in all
the hundreds of subtle ways only a person who has become your other half
in truth ever really can. Missed doing the same for him.
   Like now. A few months ago, if she’d seen that look on his face, she’d
reach out. Brush his cheek. Give his hand a squeeze. Or even just smile
in that way she knew made his belly loose. A little upward quirk of the
lips, a sideways peek through her lashes.
   She caught herself halfway between smiling and reaching for him. Shook
her head to clear it.
   “I was ill,” she said, realizing she needed to back up her lie about her
stomach. “Thank you for checking on me. I’m strong enough to wash now,
if you don’t mind…?”
   It wasn’t a question, they both knew that. He pursed his lips at her,
shifted his weight uncomfortably in his crouch. He didn’t want to leave,
probably feared her drowning in her wash water, but she was captain. And
though she hadn’t exactly given him an order… well. She had, really.
   “Call for me if you require help.” So formal. So stiff. Not bothering to
hide a grimace he pushed to his feet, knees popping, and made a show of
rubbing the small of his back. She almost laughed. How old was he?
Thirty, forty? She’d never been good at guessing ages, but whatever his
small aches, they were nothing compared to the bonewither eating her
alive. She envied him his sore knees, his knotted back. Envied him the
time he had left.
   Envied, too, whoever would get to spend that time with him once she was
gone.
   He left her there, shutting the door gently behind him, and it took her
longer than she’d ever admit to find her feet, to shuffle over to the
bucket of sun-warmed water and wash the sticky sweat from her body. The
trembling of her limbs sprayed droplets across the floor, sprinkled wet
darkness on her walls, her shelf. She grit her teeth, breathed deep and
even, and by the time she was washed and dressed in clothes loose enough
to hide the bone braces she wore all the time now, she was stable. Calm.
Something like her old self.
   Whatever that meant. Standing before her mirror as she forced her hair
into a tight queue– Ripka’s style, part of her recalled as she worked –
she wondered if the madness that had driven her mother to raving fits
was finally taking root in her own mind. She’d caught glimpses of it
during those days in Aransa, when Kel was left cooling beneath the sand
and she had only her vengeance to nurse. Felt the intoxicating lilt of
mania speed her heart and sharpen her mind every time she picked up a
blade to draw blood. If it wasn’t for the responsibility of theLarkspur and its crew– she had given up hiding it after the Remnant,
given up on being theMirror– then she would have devolved into her
mother’s madness in the days after Aransa.
   Or dedicated her life to destroying Thratia Ganal.
   Maybe that was what she was doing, after all. She had gathered a cadre
of skilled deviants, stolen them away from Thratia’s reach, trained them
up to be stronger and more refined than they had any right to be as
non-Catari.
   In those moments she had felt calm. Centered. As if in rescuing her
little collection of deviants she was doing a good thing. And she had
been. Still was. Rumors swirled about deviants hiding in Hond Steading,
after all. That was the only reason they were still lingering here.
Fishing, fishing.
   But maybe those were just the reasons she gave them all. Lies she’d told
to herself. Maybe… maybe the madness had never really left her. Could it
ever? She recalled islands of sanity in her life, oases of peace raising
her children bracketed by hard rage and desperation.
   She had done good, in the literal sense. Had saved lives. But she was
doppel–illusionist– and duplicity was bred into her bones. Bones
that were leaking their true nature throughout her now.
   She had been saving people, yes. But she had also been gathering them.
Gathering weapons.
   Weapons Thratia Ganal was coming to meet.
   Pelkaia smiled at herself in the mirror, and did not bother covering her
Catari features with a false face today. When she opened her cabin door
to gaze upon her crew, to issue the orders for the day, she looked upon
them all– each in turn – and saw them for the truth beneath the veneer.
   Sharpened spears, under her command. Weapons the likes of which hadn’t
been released upon the Scorched since the time of Catari dominance.
   And as they smiled at her, waved good morning and asked after her
recovery from her so-called stomach troubles, she realized the true
extent of her command, here and now. They trusted her. Implicitly.
   Pelkaia looked upon her unknowing soldiers, and was filled with joy.
   Chapter Eight
   Ripka was being followed. At first she suspected the watchers, tailing
her to report back to their captain, but not a hint of blue flashed in
the corner of her eye. No, someone else was shadowing Ripka’s heels, and
it wasn’t likely to be anyone friendly.
   She didn’t dare pick up her pace or start weaving through streets, lest
she alert her tail that they’d been spotted. She kept her gait a slow,
easy stroll. Just a woman new to the city out for a little exploring.
Anticipation tingled in her fingertips. She wished she had her weapons –
a cutlass, a baton, anything really. But she was no longer a watcher,
and normal citizens didn’t roam the streets armed to the teeth.
   Despite her unease, a little thrill went through her. It’d been a long
time since she’d played any flavor of cat-and-mouse game. She meant to
win.
   The street opened up into a stall market, hot spices and pungent dyes
heavy on the air. She cut close to the right-hand stalls, weathering the
clamor of excited vendors with polite, but firm indifference. She had no
interest in their goods, she just wanted to see what her follower would
do in a denser crowd.
   The crowd congealed behind her as she passed, as it always did in busy
marketplaces, but this had a different feel to it, a touch of tension.
Someone was moving quickly back there, trying to keep Ripka in their
sight. She grinned a little, pretended to finger a light-woven scarf,
then stepped into the narrow space between two stalls, flicking her gaze
back the way she’d come. A hint of an arm as a person – by build she
suspected a woman – slithered back into the crowd. Nothing recognizable.
Nothing even inherently threatening. But that arm had been clothed in
russet, not watcher blue.
   While her follower was busy avoiding Ripka’s backward stare, she slipped
behind a pile of rugs and darted into a side-alley, drawing raised
eyebrows from the rug seller, but nothing more. Back pressed against the
stone of the alley wall, she waited. A smear of a shadow approached,
movements halting and furtive. The shadow stopped to finger the same rug
Ripka had.
   The shadow drew close. Ripka tensed. An arm swung into the alley and
Ripka was upon it in a second, yanked hard on the forearm and pivoted,
swinging the woman like a club into the alley wall.
   She smacked the stone with a grunt and a yelp of surprise, bush of pale
blonde hair catching some of the dust that showered down upon her.
Ripka’s eyes widened.
   “Honey!”
   She released her and stepped back, wary. Honey was her ally– or had
been, in the Remnant – but the woman’s lust for violence wasn’t
something to be ignored. Ripka wouldn’t have been surprised at all if
Honey’d decided to hunt Ripka through the streets, just for fun.
   “What are you doing following me like that?”
   Honey peeled herself off the wall with a little grunt and adjusted her
clothes, wiping away grit and bits of slime as best she could.
   “I was bored,” she said in her whisper-soft rasp. “Dame Honding says I’m
not to play with the knives, they’re for the kitchen staff.”
   Ripka swallowed a laugh.“Well, she’s not wrong. Did I hurt you?”
   Honey’s eyes widened as she prodded at the forearm Ripka had yanked on.
“Just a little bruise.”
   “I’m sorry about that, I didn’t know it was you.”
   “I don’t mind.” She lapsed into her usual silence, watching Ripka with
those wide, reverent eyes. Honey, bored. In a city of hundreds of
thousands. Ripka swallowed. In bringing Honey here she had,
inadvertently, released a viper into a nest of pinkie rats.
   Before they had arrived at the city, Ripka had made sure Honey had a new
set of clothes outside of the worn old jumpsuit the prison had given
her. They were a little big; the new clothes hung down around her body
making her look like an underfed urchin.
   “Hey, you two!” The proprietor of the rug stall stuck his head down the
alley, pinched eyes narrowed with suspicion. “I don’t like no one
sneaking around my goods, understand? Get lost a’fore I call the watch.”
   Honey began to hum softly to herself.
   “Took a wrong turn. Don’t mean any trouble!” Ripka grabbed Honey by the
wrist and yanked her along the alley to the other side. This street was
quieter, a residential neighborhood with a sparse scattering of foot
traffic. Ripka huffed the warm desert air and breathed out with a heavy
sigh.
   “Honey,” she began haltingly. “This city is in danger, and I have a lot
of work to do to try and keep it safe. You–” she bit her lip, cutting
off what she was going to say:you can’t keep dogging my heels. What
else was Honey going to do? This wasn’t a woman who made easy friends,
and for some reason she’d taken a liking to Ripka. “You want to help
me?”
   Honey visibly brightened.“What do I do?”
   Ripka knew of Honey’s more violent skills, but the fact remained that
she hadn’t a clue how the woman had come to be the way she was. What
Honey’s life had been before the Remnant was a mystery to Ripka, but she
might yet be harboring some skills that could be of use.
   “What did you used to do, before we met?”
   She frowned.“Hung with Clink and the girls.”
   “Yes, but, before that – before the Remnant?”
   Honey buttoned up her lips and just stared. Ripka knew better than to
think that it was because she didn’t understand.
   “All right then, you don’t have to tell me. I have to go and stake a
place out. It’s watcher-work, but I think you could help. All you have
to do is be quiet, and remember everything you see and hear. Can you do
that?”
   Honey, always a riveting conversationalist, nodded.— ⁂ —
   They found the bright berry cafe at the end of the market, tucked under
a faded garnet overhang in the shadow of Hond Steading’s forum, a place
the Dame had built to allow the intellectuals of her city to debate the
problems of the time.
   Ripka hadn’t known what to expect, really. The taverns of Aransa that
had sold Renold Grandon’s honey liqueur, hiding weapons of Thratia’s
loyalists in the bellies of the crates, had been middling places. Places
where the working class of Aransa gathered to drink, gamble, and talk
out their worries. Bright Eyes, as the cafe’s slapdash painted sign
declared itself, was packed with men and women whose nails Ripka found
suspiciously clean.
   Small round tables spilled out into the street, barely large enough to
support two of the small sienna-glazed mugs of tea the cafe sold.
Patrons leaned over their steaming mugs, either engaged in animated
conversation with their partners or bent over sheaths of ragged-edged
papers. The tannic-sweet aroma of the tea was so heavy on the air that
Ripka felt more alert just by taking a deep breath.
   A harried waitress emerged from the cafe’s doors, spotted Ripka and
Honey standing there, and bustled right up to them. She’d piled her hair
atop her head and speared both sides with two charcoal pencils. She
bared her teeth at them in a forced smile.
   “Got a table around back that just opened up. You want it?”
   “Sure,” Ripka said.
   The waitress turned on her heel so sharp she’d make a watcher look
sloppy, and stormed the doors of her cafe. They were deposited at a tiny
round table with precariously high stools on the cafe’s back patio. The
waitress vanished, returned with a couple of matched cups and saucers,
and hit them with a hard stare.
   “You want it hot?”
   “Uh, sure,” Ripka said.
   The waitress snorted, disappeared, and returned with a piping hot
pitcher full of bright eye berry tea. She doled out both mugs, then
dashed them off with something from an amber glass bottle. Something
that, as soon as it hit the hot liquid, sent up a steaming curl of
biting alcohol. Ripka wrinkled her nose.
   “What’s that?”
   The waitress scowled.“That’s your heat. First tea refills are free,
rest cost you a small copper grain. Want any more heat, and it’s double
that. Cause any trouble, you’re banned for life.”
   “Lot of people cause trouble here?”
   The waitress puffed a curl of hair from her eyes and pursed her lips
like she’d kissed a cactus. “Lady, there’s nothing worse for trouble
than a couple of bright-upped brainiacs.”
   With that pronouncement, she swept from the patio and left Ripka and
Honey alone with their drinks. Ripka gave hers a tentative sniff. Bright
eye berry was a common enough staple at all watcher station houses.
She’d never been a regular drinker herself, she preferred her teas heavy
with spice, but the bright eye taste never quite managed to offend her.
She took a sip. Couldn’t much taste the sweetness of the tea over the
acrid bite of the dash of whisky.
   Honey stared at her cup like it was a viper rearing to strike.
   “Everything all right?” Ripka asked.
   “Smells sweet,” she said.
   “Not a fan of the sweet stuff? Unfortunate name choice, then. Go on and
give it a taste. It’s not too bad – the whisky cuts the sweetness.”
   Honey gave it a taste, and a flicker of pleasure crinkled her face.“Oh.
That’s nice.”
   “See? Drink it slow, now, I want to get a good look at this place.”
   Honey sipped quietly while Ripka leaned back, cup in hand, and took in
the view. The interior of Bright Eyes Cafe hadn’t been much to look at.
It’d been a cramped space, just a handful of tables and narrow chairs,
the air heavy with smoke. But the patio was wider than she’d expected,
and whoever owned the place had put some effort into the details. The
stone walls hemming them in were crawling all over with spiny-leaved
vines, sporting the tiny buds that could be harvested and roasted to
make the eponymous tea. Huge umbrellas dotted the patio, dropping and
faded, but well patched and providing much-needed shade. Whether by
chance or choice, the patio was angled to take advantage of the evening
breeze.
   Ripka sighed, leaning into her seat, truly relaxed. Here, she couldn’t
see the Honding family palace. Here, she could pretend the city would
carry on like this forever.
   “I say, it’s not right. The old Dame has got to see sense.”
   Ripka searched those gathered for the voice and found the source. A man
no more than twenty leaned across a table toward two companions,
gesturing with every word. A rat’s tail of a beard clung to his chin,
and he wore a drooping hat that the poor soul probably thought gave him
a rakish air, but really just gave off the rather unappealing message
that he was, as it were, limp.
   His companions did not seem half so moved by the man’s words as he’d
hoped they would be. To his right, a woman in a cheap beige shift with
hints of ink and paint about her fingers leaned back to put distance
between them and snorted. To his left, a man just slightly the speaker’s
senior toyed with the rim of his cup, fingers drumming against his knee
under the table. The nervous man wore a suit coat despite the steamy
monsoon warmth, the elbows and hemline patched with ruddy brown to
contrast the overall hue of mustard. The colors would have made most
complexions on the Scorched look as if they were suffering from sand
scabies, but thisman was dark enough to carry them off.
   “Let it go, Dranik,” the woman said. “The Dame knows what she’s about.”
   “Does she?” the young man pounced. “She’s what, seventy-five? She could
be going raw in the head and no one would dare point it out. We need a
new system in place. A representative law code.”
   “My own grandma’s near ninety,” the patched man offered, “and sharp as
Valathean steel.”
   “Bully for her, but I don’t see how that’s relevant.”
   “I don’t see howany of this is relevant.” The woman shook her cup for
a refill and clucked her tongue. “The Dame will do as she wills. It’s
not for us to decide.”
   “But itcould be, that’s the whole point!”
   Ripka caught Honey’s eye and mouthed, “What do you think?”
   “Thunder, no lightning,” Honey murmured.
   Ripka nodded agreement, but kept an ear on the conversation anyway. The
young man’s tone was unusually earnest. She’d come across a lot of
people with that kind of earnestness in their voice in Aransa. Nine
times out of ten, they were just dying to tell her all about whatever
strange conspiracy they’d stumbled across that week, and their evidence
was always in the dying off of a tree, or the presence of game tracks
where they were convinced nothing could have made them. Nonsense, on the
balance.
   But something about this man told her that he wasn’t prone to that
particular flavor of conspiracy. For one, he was quite a deal cleaner
than the usual type, and for two, there really was something afoot in
Hond Steading. She thought about approaching him outright, expressing
interest in the ideals she’d overheard, but that’d raise suspicion. He
must meet with more like-minded individuals sometime. If she managed to
cross the lad’s path at just the right moment, then maybe…
   “Republicanism is dead,” a wiry-bearded man at a table near Ripka’s
suspicious trio declared. The young man, Dranik, bristled all over.
   “There’s no proof of that,” Dranik said.
   “Fiery pits there isn’t. Look at what happened in Aransa!”
   “That was a success! Commodore Ganal was voted to her post, in case
you’ve forgotten.”
   “Voted,” the older man slurred, making air quotes around the word with
both hands as he swayed toward Dranik’s table. He thumped a hand down
and made all three cups jump. “That previous warden of theirs –he was
voted in, right and proper, then Thratia comes along and gets him killed
and scoops the city right into her pocket. Tell me, who was running
against her in this fair and enlightened election?”
   “That mine-master–”
   “Also dead! Murdered, his sel-hub burned down around him. You think
that’s coincidence, I got something shiny to sell ya.”
   “Knock it off, old man,” the woman said. “It’s all just an intellectual
exercise anyway. People like us don’t make these calls.”
   “People like us can!” Dranik jumped to his feet and wagged a finger at
the older man. “Ganal was still elected! I’d rather a contested election
than a line of succession, wouldn’t you?”
   “Pahh. Nothing wrong with a bloodline at the head. Got a lot of sense to
pass down through the generations. Can’t elect experience like that.”
   “Oh, and that’s working out well. Dame Honding’s a grand woman, I’ll
grant you, but that nephew of hers is a discredit to the name. Where’s
he been? He doesn’t care about this city. Hardly stepped foot in it.”
   “Heard he’s hustling gambling tables in the south,” the woman drawled.
   “I heard he’smurdered someone,” Dranik threw in. “What kind of leader
would that be? We need a new system in place, before it’s too late and
we end up with the likes of that buffoon.”
   “You want to run elections like the other un-founded cities?” The old
man snorted. “Know what they call the leaders of those places?Wardens. Like they run a prison! Hond Steading ain’t no prison. It’s a
jewel. The Scorched’s jewel.”
   “That’s only because the wardens operate under the yoke of the empire.
If we were to shake off Valathea’s rule, then–”
   “Whoa, whoa, whoa,” the old man sneered at Dranik. “You some kind of
secessionist?”
   “I’m only saying–”
   The older man grabbed Dranik by the front collar of his shirt and gave
him a hearty shake.“Saying what? Saying that bloodthirsty Ganal would
be better for us than the Dame and her lineage?”
   “I didn’t meanthat,” he squeaked.
   Ripka was on her feet without realizing. Between the sedative effects of
the alcohol and the energizing nature of the tea, she felt a weird
disconnect in her body– as if she were at once sleepy and alert, sharp
but slow. Dimly she was aware of Honey rising alongside her, of the
woman and the man at Dranik’s table shouting protests.
   She closed the distance. The old man was weakened by drink and age, so
he put up no resistance as she peeled him off a flush-faced Dranik. No
physical resistance, anyway. He spun around and loomed over Ripka,
yelling into her face so that spittle flecked her cheeks. She grimaced.
   “This is no business of yours, girl!”
   Honey sidled up alongside the old man and pressed something shiny down
low against his hipbone. Not too hard. Just enough to be clear of her
intentions. Her voice was soft as always, but from the way the old man’s
eyes widened he didn’t have trouble hearing.
   “Don’t yell at the captain.”
   Dranik brushed off his clothes and scowled, oblivious to the real reason
the old man had gone pale.“This brutish behavior is the inevitable
result of just the old-fashioned kind of thinking I was talking about.”
   “Out!” The waitress reappeared, her serving tray wielded like a
battering ram. “I said no trouble, understand? I’m sick of your brains
and your squabbles. Take it to the street, now, you’re barred for the
week.”
   “But–” Dranik protested. The woman with painted fingers whooped a laugh
and jumped to her feet. The man in the mustard coat had managed to fade
away to another table during the scuffle. Ripka caught his eye, and he
winked, then hid his face with his mug and turned away.
   “Knew this would be a good time,” the woman said.
   While they scurried to gather their things, the old man stood stock
still, a little bit of sweat on his pale brow.
   “Honey,” Ripka murmured, “that’s enough.”
   She pouted, but slipped whatever implement she’d found into a pocket and
slunk away from the old man to take up her usual position in Ripka’s
shadow. Tray held before her, the waitress ushered all of them out onto
the road and slammed the gate behind. The old man stomped off without
another word. The woman gave a whoop and clapped Ripka onthe back.
   “Haven’t seen you ‘round before, lady, but that was a fine showing,
twisting up old Hammod like that.”
   Ripka flushed.“I didn’t want anyone to get hurt.”
   “Sweet of you, but Hammod’s all bluster. I suppose now you know. I
wouldn’t be surprised if he’s running home to change his pants.”
   “That’s unkind, Latia,” Dranik said.
   “True, though, innit?” She flashed him a grin, and he rolled his eyes.
   “So sorry to get you involved,” Dranik said, turning to shake Ripka’s
hand, “but thank you nonetheless. Hammod may be toothless, but he’s got
to learn that that kind of behavior is no way to argue a point.”
   “You really believe all that stuff you were saying?” she asked, keeping
her voice carefully neutral.
   Latia snorted.“He believes it well enough, it’s what he’s willing to do
about it where it all falls down.”
   “Now, that’s unkind,” Dranik admonished. Latia rolled her eyes, but
lapsed into silence. “I am a believer, it’s true. Say, you didn’t get to
finish your teas. May I buy you another?”
   “And bend our ears?” Ripka asked. Dranik shoved his hands in his pockets
and made a close survey of the ground.
   “Hah,” Latia said, “don’t let him pick the place, he’s got terrible
taste. Let’s all go back to my studio. I’ve got the tea, and Dranik
hasn’t got the grains to treat you both anyway. Could barely afford his
own cup today.”
   “I afforded my cup just fine!”
   “Then why were you nursing it so long?”
   Dranik scuffed a kick against the dirt floor.“Fine. But I’ll replace
the tea we drink.”
   “Sure you will. Care to join us?” Latia turned to Ripka and Honey,
eyebrows raised expectantly.
   “What about your other friend?” Ripka asked.
   “Oh.Him.” Latia threw her hands in the air dramatically. “He’d only
drink the tea to beseen drinking it, if you catch my meaning. So,
what about it? Coming along?”
   “We’d love to. I’m Ripka, and this is Honey,” she said. Latia gave Honey
the once-over and harrumphed.
   “Don’t hear a name like that every day.”
   “It’s for my voice,” Honey said. Ripka held her breath, but they seemed
to take this at face value. Despite Honey’s muted rasp, she had an
undeniable sweetness to every syllable.
   As they followed the two through the city, listening to them rehash old
arguments, Ripka leaned close to Honey and whispered.
   “Did you get a knife?”
   “Found it.” She flashed Ripka a quick glimpse of a worn fruitknife and
then slipped it back into her pocket.
   “Where?”
   “The waitress’s apron.”
   Ripka coughed on a laugh and grinned despite herself.“Honey, you little
thief.”
   “She wasn’t using it,” Honey protested, a faint pout on her lips.
   “Keep it close,” Ripka said, eyeing Dranik’s back. “And hidden.”
   Chapter Nine
   Aransa. City of fire. City of blood. City of Thratia Ganal. It slid into
view upon the horizon just like any other city, the sharp crags of its
skyline a black blot under the bowed head of the setting sun.
   Such a city should not appear so docile, so sleepy under the lowing of
the day’s light. Detan wanted to hate the sight of it. This was the city
that had almost trapped him, almost enslaved him. This was the city
where he dug deepest, reached out and rendered the sky in flame.
   This was the city that broke him, though it took a while for the cracks
to show.
   And yet he could not hate it. Could not even summon up a mild disgust.
Aransa was beautiful, with its dormant mountain cut through with streets
and city life facing the relatively blank face of its commerce-supplying
firemount. Those black shards of obsidian that stretched between the
city and the firemount gleamed even in the setting light, their heat
twisting vision into smoky waves. Somewhere beneath those shards a vast
chamber of magma dwelt, merging with the desert heat to create a killing
field.
   He’d walked that field, once. Walked it with Ripka, for Ripka, and had
come out the other side a different man.
   No, he couldn’t hate it. Aransa was the city that’d forged him. He was
only gaining temper, now. Honing his edge for what was to come.
   Closer, and the differences began to show. Thratia’s compound had
expanded, bled out across the level below. The first time he’d seen it,
the size had struck him as ostentatious. Now, with her walls consuming
half of a whole level, he realized how wrong he’d been that first time.
She’d just been waiting. Waiting to consume the city whole.
   And, in a way, he’d let her. He’d scooped up Ripka, Tibs, Pelkaia, and
New Chum and sailed out across the sands, leaving Thratia to do whatever
she willed. He hadn’t stayed. Hadn’t even considered the possibility of
staying to fight back. He’d been consumed by the need to escape the
whitecoat’s scalpel looming over his head. A fate he’d bent knee to,
willingly, when the opportunity had suited him. Shame burned in his
throat.
   He was coming back, now. Coming back to set things to rights, if he
could at all manage the task. That’s why he’d bent knee to Aella, after
all. Not just to save his friends, not just to discover the secrets of
his own abilities. But to begin to balance the scales he’d left so
terribly out of whack.
   Standing beside him on the airship’s forerail, Forge whistled low.
“Looks like she’s ready to march.” Her hair obscured her face, but Detan
could hear a hint of disdain in her tone.
   If Thratia’d bled her presence all over the upper levels of the city,
she’d gone and thrown up on the mid-levels. An entire level once given
over to rental docks and mercer berths was swarmed with ships of war.
Where Thratia’d found the wood to construct them all on such short
notice, he hadn’t the slightest clue, but they existed despite their
impossibility. Probably she’d had the source for that wood lined up
years in advance. Even before her exile from Valathea, Thratia had been
admired amongst her peers in their Fleet for her tendency to obsessively
plan all her maneuvers.
   The ships weren’t things of beauty, not like theLarkspur had been.
But then, they hadn’t been built to impress – they were built for one
purpose; troop transportation, and to rain fire from above. Each hull
was long and lean, the cabins sparse and the rails speckled by heavy
harpoon stands. Detan tried to count them, but the curve of the city hid
the bulk from his view.
   “Not a fan of old Commodore Throatslitter, are you?” he asked Forge.
   Her long fingers, the nails trimmed down to stubs and the cuticles
splitting, curled tight around the rail.“I got a certain amount of
respect for a woman like that, you understand. No one can say she does
anything by half measures, and that’s the skies’ truth, but you can’t
trust her. Got no honor for anything save her own goals, and those she
keeps tight to the chest. A woman like that, she’ddo anything if it
meant achieving her goal. Anything at all.”
   “Says the convict,” Detan mused.
   She snorted.“Your hands can’t be clean either, little lord. And anyway,
I only did what I had to to make a living. Wasn’t ever quick to kill or
anything like that.”
   “And how did you make your living?”
   She turned to regard him, and when he met her eyes, her look said he was
the biggest idiot she’d ever met.
   “Oh. Forge. It’s in the name, isn’t it?”
   She laughed.“Now he gets it. Wrote up some false contracts, identity
papers, things like that. Nothing too cutting, at least not that I knew
of, and I confess I rarely looked into the outcome of my works. I was
good. Real good.” She picked at her curling, dry cuticles and flicked a
bit of skin over the side of the ship.
   “How’d you get caught?”
   She shrugged.“How’s anybody get caught? Overreached, is what I did.
Wrote up a fake manifest for some ship, real bit of bloated nonsense,
and the mercer who bought it couldn’t pull it off. He got hauled in, and
I didn’t find out about it until he’d already squealed and the watch was
knocking on my door. Usually it’s just a jail stint for that kinda work,
but Valathea thought they might want my talents someday and kicked me to
the R to keep an eye on me. Lucky girl I was, meeting Clink and Honey
straight off.”
   “Clink I know, but who’s Honey?”
   Forge shook her head, slow and ponderous. She stuck her gaze on the
approaching city and kept on picking at her nails.“Don’t know her real
name, or her whole story. Never bothered to ask – got the feeling that
she didn’t want to talk about it, you know? Of the group – me, Clink,
Honey, and Kisser – Honey was the first of us. She’d been at the Remnant
a long while before she hitched herself up to Clink.
   “I asked Clink about it once, how they met and decided to roll along
together. She said Honey just came up to her one day, sat down beside
her, and that was that. It was Clink’s second day in, and she wasn’t a
fool – she could tell everyone in the place was wary of Honey. So she
figured it wasn’t such a bad idea to stick with the girl. Then I came
along, then Kisser, then the captain – that’s Ripka. Honey liked the
captain right off, saw her fight, you know. Honey likes that kinda
thing. Escaped with the captain, I think she did, anyway. Never saw her
again in the Remnant and weknow she wasn’t killed that day. Only Kisser
was.”
   “Is Honey a short, sturdy woman with a mess of blonde curls?”
   “That’s the one.”
   Detan nodded.“I saw her that day. As far as I know, she walked out with
Ripka.”
   “You know… Part of me’s happy she’s free, the Remnant’s no place to
live. But the smart part of me… Well, I wonder if the world wasn’t
better off with her tucked away there, you know?”
   “If Ripka’s got her, it’ll be all right.”
   Forge clucked her tongue against her teeth and leaned back to stretch.“Wish I shared your faith, little lord.”
   “You two.” Misol snapped her fingers at them as she approached. “Get
away from the rail now, we’re preparing to dock.”
   “Straight to the compound, then?” Detan asked.
   Misol shrugged.“There’s not exactly room on the eleventh, now is
there?”
   They retreated from the fore rail, but Detan lingered nearby, watching
the massive structure that was Thratia’s home and stronghold grow closer
and closer. The pilot was fidgety with the controls, yawing the ship at
random angles as he approached. Detan grit his teeth to keep from
yelling at the man for being a moron.
   They angled toward the old u-dock, the very berth where he’d first
sighted theLarkspur. The dock upon which Bel Grandon had died, just
to make Detan’s life a little harder.
   He swallowed a lump in his throat. It didn’t go anywhere.
   The crew called out to one another, hauling ropes and throwing anchor,
as the ship slid into port. Those huge, hugging arms of deck reached out
to give the ship shelter, though this ship was considerably smaller than
theLarkspur had been. Where once crates of supplies– smuggled
weapons and uniforms – had littered the ground, there was only empty
space, now.
   Empty, aside from Thratia Ganal and her entourage.
   Ignoring Misol’s warning about being near the fore rail, Detan stepped
forward. He didn’t have a lot of pride left, nowadays, but he’d be
damned to the pits if he cowered in a cabin while they docked. He wanted
to be the first thing she saw, as this ship of hers came running to her
call. Wanted her to knowhe’d come back, and though he’d bent knee to
Aella, he wasn’t cowed. Wanted her, above all else, to see him grinning
like he owned the world she’d threaded her fingers through – she just
didn’t know it yet.
   Thratia stood at the spearpoint of her group of guards and attendants,
posture as straight and sure as ever, chin lifted to meet the incoming
ship. She wore granite-grey leggings, a bloodstone-hued tunic cut close
to her lithe body. No weapons. Not even a wisp of armor. He wasn’t the
only one faking confidence, then.
   Her hair was braided, pulled back from her shoulders to reveal the
burn-scar that marred her cheek. The flesh rippled from the left side of
her chin all the way up to her ear, the skin a warped pattern of shiny
waves and eddies. Detan wondered if it hurt– if she pulled her hair
from it to keep the ache at bay – but no. That wasn’t Thratia’s way.
Even if it did ache, she’d still pull her hair back to display the
injury.
   The injury he’d given her.
   They stared at one another as the ship tied in and the gangplanks were
thrown down. She’d tried to kill him, or capture him, more than once.
And here he was, strolling into her home under the power of one of her
lackeys. Knee already bent, head bowed to her whims. She had called for
him, reached south across the Scorched to a knobby little island in the
middle of the Endless Sea and said: come.
   And he had. He’d come when she called. Because he desired nothing more
than to make her regret it.
   He was on the dock, couldn’t even recall walking down the gangplank,
standing in front of Thratia. Trying real hard not to look down, not to
spare the boards beneath his feet a glance. He didn’t want to see the
stain of Bel’s blood there. Didn’t want to see that it’d been scrubbed
clean even worse.
   “Thratia. You’re looking better every day.”
   She cut her gaze to Aella.“You told me he’d changed.”
   “He’sstarted to,” the girl corrected.
   A sane woman would have sighed. Would have glared at him and told him to
shove it, or otherwise admonished him for mocking the very wound he’d
dealt her. Thratia’s lips didn’t even twitch. She cocked her head to the
side, looked him over real slow, and nodded to herself. “You’ll do.”
   “Excuse me?” he asked, but she had already turned her back on him.
   “See Aella’s people settled,” she said to her entourage. “Get secure
facilities for the two prisoners, and show the guards where the training
grounds are. Upper floor rooms for Aella and the Lord Honding. Honding
has free run of the city, do not detain him. Aella–” She turned back to
the girl and jerked her head to the side. “With me. My people will make
sure Callia’s settled.”
   And just like that, Thratia was gone, Aella floating along at her side
like a ghost. Her people swarmed Aella’s guards, the ship, bundled off
Clink and Forge and set to carrying Callia away to be looked after.
Detan found Misol directing the unloading of the ship and looked at her,
open-mouthed.
   “That’s it?” he asked.
   Misol shrugged.“I don’t make the rules. Explore the city, if you’d
like.” She grinned a little. “I won’t stop you.”
   “Lord Honding?” an attendant sidled up to him. “Would you like to be
shown your rooms?”
   “I…” he stammered, annoyed that Thratia, of all people, had managed to
put him at a loss for words. “No. No. I’m going to go for a walk. Get my
land-legs back.”
   “As you wish. When you return, any of the house staff will be able to
show you to your rooms, you have but to ask.” The attendant dipped her
head and raised her palms above her head. “Skies bless,” she said, and
bustled off to see to her other duties.
   “Skies bless,” Detan responded by rote, numb with shock. Whatever he’d
been expecting in Thratia’s home, it hadn’t been a household holding to
the old functions of politeness. He certainly hadn’t expected to be
turned loose to do as he pleased just like any other guest.
   Time to test the leash, he thought, and turned his back on the
ill-omened dock to greet the streets of Aransa.
   Chapter Ten
   Latia’s studio nestled in the cool shadow of one of Hond Steading’s many
firemounts. Though Hond Steading’s firemounts lacked the impressive,
steep angles of Aransa’s Smokestack, hints of the wealth they generated
for the city clung to the sides of each and every one of them. Even from
Latia’sstudio Ripka could see the fittings of pipework that snaked down
the firemount from its mouth, moving selium and gathering it into
central confinement chambers as sel-miners urged it along.
   “The view’s a bit rubbish,” Latia said, as she swung open the door to
her studio. “But I own the place outright.”
   “Built it with her own two hands,” Dranik threw in. Latia scoffed.
   “Mine and a half dozen others. Used to be I let other artists flop at my
place when they were hard up, so when it came time to build my own
studio they were all keen to help out. Some of ‘em still drop by, but
it’s rare. They think I’m a snob now that I own property. Figures.”
   She ushered them into a wide, round sitting room with arched walkways
hung with gauzy curtains leading out onto a patio. The walls were
mud-plastered, but every inch had been enriched with vibrant frescoes in
reds and yellows and blacks. Rare birds, lush flowers, and fish that
Ripka suspected were purely imaginary, danced on every available
surface.
   “Is this your work?” Ripka asked.
   Latia flicked the back of her hand through the air, as if brushing away
their existence.“Old stuff, but yes. I like to keep the shadows of my
past failures close.”
   “Failures? But they’re beautiful. I’ve never seen anything like them.”
   “Latia is too modest.” Dranik drew back one of the curtains to let in
the breeze. “She believes everything she does is her best work while
she’s making it, and her worst as soon as it’s done.”
   “Piddle. You don’t make anything, my dear, and so you cannot possibly
understand.”
   “I make no objects, that’s true, but Iam trying to make a new future
for this tired world of ours.”
   Latia rolled her eyes to the sweet skies.“If I could have but half your
confidence, I’d have taken over the world by now.”
   “What future?” Ripka asked, all curious innocence, as she traced a
fish’s tail through the mud-plaster with the tip of her finger.
   “Don’t get him started,” Latia admonished.
   “Not everyone has their head in their paints, Latia dear.”
   “At least let me get them their tea, first.”
   After much fuss, Latia situated Ripka and Honey in creaky chairs of
woven scrubgrass and deposited heavy cups of bright berry in their
hands. The packed dirt patio was soft under Ripka’s feet, the breeze
coming down off the firemount crisp with an edge of creosote. Latia
might not have been fond of the view, but Ripka enjoyed it. It focused
her, reminded her why Hond Steading mattered. Why she was making friends
with these people, to discover if they knew any of Thratia’s loyalists.
   “I don’t know why Dranik insists on meeting at cafes all the time,”
Latia said, swilling her cup in her hand. “I make a much better brew
here at home.”
   “For the atmosphere, darling.”
   “Do you enjoy it when Hammod chokes you then?”
   “Is that a regular occurrence?” Ripka asked.
   Latia grinned fiercely while Dranik squirmed in his seat.“We disagree
often, Hammod and I, but usually he has the sense to take it to the
forum for a proper debate. I haven’t a clue why he’s so wound up as of
late. He’s never raised hands before,” Dranik admitted.
   Latia said,“Could have something to do with the army marching to our
doorstep.”
   “Bah.” Dranik waved her off. “Thratia won’t crush us. She’d hardly want
to take over a city that’s been kicked to pieces.”
   “Oh, and does she write you personal letters to tell you as much? With
little smooch drawings on the bottom, I bet. ‘Don’t worry, I won’t grind
you beneath my heel. Hugs and Kisses, General Throatslitter.’”
   “Don’t be so flip, Latia, this is important stuff. Dame Honding has had
her run, but let’s face it, the dynasty’s dead. We need someone who will
let us hold proper elections, debate city policies openly–”
   “You mean like the forum the Dame opened, that you’re so fond of?”
   “Yes! But imagine if we could debate the merits of our officials as well
as small civic matters.”
   “You forget, my dear, that people like Hammod would have just as much
right to make arguments as you do.”
   They fell into a pattern of bickering that felt old and comfortable.
Ripka leaned back in her creaking chair, watching them battle out their
differences with good-natured affection. Something like what they spoke
of– that forum – might have done some good in Aransa. She wished she’d
heard of it before Warden Faud’s death. Then maybe all those angry souls
who’d secretly worn her uniform would have been able to talk about their
grievances with the empire, and find solutions, before a tyrant took the
reins.
   But it was too late for Aransa. She scrubbed the past failures of that
city from her mind for the time being. Though they were what kept her up
in the dark of the night, they helped her not at all now. She was here
to find out how far Thratia’s fingers reached. She let her mind wander,
stoking the coals of information she’d gathered.
   In Aransa, Thratia had smuggled weapons in the bottom of liqueur crates.
Here, where Detan had written to his aunt about Grandon’s honey liqueur,
she would have had to find a different method. According to
Watch-captain Lakon, these bright eye berry tea shops were the place to
be seen amongst the young and vibrant of Hond Steading. The pattern
might not be exact – it’d been the poor and working class Thratia had
reached for in Aransa – but it needn’t be. Thratia was a flexible woman,
and Hond Steading was a very different city.
   “Listen to you prattle on, Dranik, we’re ignoring our guests.” Latia
turned her languid gaze upon Ripka and Honey. Her eyes were set just a
touch further apart than Ripka felt was strictly normal, her lashes
thick and a dark, dusky brown. In the half-shade of her patio, lounging
against the scrubbrush furniture with a mug in her hand, Latia reminded
Ripka of old etchings from fairytales. A queen of the fae, perhaps. Or a
poisoner. Ripka’s mother hadn’t exactly been coy with the stories she’d
sung Ripka to bed with as a child.
   “Don’t change your habits for our sake,” Ripka protested. “We’re new to
the city, and happy for the company.”
   “New?” Dranik sat forward, fingers tight around his mug. “Where did you
come from?”
   Ripka doled out the bait with care.“Honey’s from Petrastad, and I’m
from Aransa.”
   “Aransa!”
   “Petrastad!” Latia was suddenly alert. “What’s it like?” She directed
her question to Honey, who’d been running a thumb around the edge of her
mug, but not drinking.
   Ripka held her breath as Honey looked up, frowned a little in thought,
then said,“Cold.”
   “Oh!” Latia said, “It must be more than that, surely?”
   Honey stared at Ripka, begging for help with her gaze. Ripka just
shrugged.
   “Damp, too,” Honey amended.
   Latia arched one eyebrow at Ripka, who offered a helpless smile and
another shrug.“Honey’s a woman of few words.”
   “Never found much use for them,” Honey said, her rasp growing in depth
the more words she strung together.
   “Oh, you have a throat injury! My poor dear girl. I had a friend like
that. She wanted to sing on stage, but blew out her voice – something
about not hitting the high notes right. Ah! I’m such a terrible host.
That bright berry’s no good for your throatat all. Here.” Latia swept
to her feet, swooped down upon Honey and snatched her untouched mug from
her hands. “Let me brew you something a little more soothing.”
   Honey caught Ripka’s eye and murmured, “I don’t like the stage.”
   Ripka had absolutely no idea what she meant. She gave Honey’s hand a
pat, as if they were old friends discussing past heartaches, and the
woman’s pouting lips swung up in a smile. Ripka caught herself smiling
back. As much as Honey unnerved her, Ripka was convinced there was a
streak of good in the woman. A streak she’d like to get to know.
   “Never mind the stage,” Dranik said all in a rush. “When did you come
from Aransa? Were you there for the takeover?”
   “I was there when Warden Faud was murdered. I left shortly after that.”
   “So you’ve seen it in action! The well-oiled machine of the populace,
rising together to elect a leader more fit to listen to their needs than
the old aristocracy.”
   Ripka bit her tongue until she tasted iron. This young fool was her best
bet for discovering Thratia’s network in Hond Steading, or at least the
only lead she’d stumbled across so far, and she didn’t want to alienate
him. Even if she thought he was a proper moron. And yet, she just
couldn’t bring herself to sing Thratia’s praises. Ripka smiled a little,
thinking of Detan. That willingness to deceive was where their paths
diverged. She hoped he was having better luck than she was.
   “…Thratia certainly disrupted the old ways. But I can’t say how well it
went, I was gone long before she took complete control.”
   “A pity you didn’t get to see it.” His shoulders slumped.
   Latia glided back to the patio, dropped a fresh mug in Honey’s hands and
actually squeezed the woman’s shoulder affectionately. “There you go, my
dear. Drink up, drink up. I can’t undo old damage, but I’ve got a few
tricks up my sleeve to make living with it easier.” She pinned Dranik
with a look. “Living with old pain’s the best anyone can hope for.”
   Dranik shifted, took a drink, coughed into his elbow and adjusted the
collar of his coat.“I was just asking Ripka here about her time in
Aransa. Seems she left before things really got cooking.”
   “Oh?” Latia sank back into her seat and laid her arms out on the wide
arms of the chair. “And why did you leave? Though I can think of a half
dozen good reasons.”
   “I had a job to do,” Ripka said.
   “Really?” Latia grinned. “Come now, what kind of job? You’ve been
traveling with your muted friend too long, I think. You can’t just leave
it like that –a job. By the sweet skies, woman, you do leave one’s
imagination tospin with that kind of talk. Fess up, now, what’s your
work?”
   Watcher. Prisoner. Con-woman. Ripka blinked, slowly. None of these would
suit her purposes here. Detan had told her, before she’d gone to the
Remnant, to stick to half-truths when faced with the need to tell a lie,
something she was likely to remember, to be able to supply details for.
And she’d had work before she was a watcher. She’d just tried hard to
forget it.
   “I fought for prizes, for a while. I guard convoys now, if I can find
the work.”
   Honey’s eyes widened, just a touch.
   “A prizefighter!” Latia leaned forward and clapped. “That explains your
killer instincts with Hammod. Are you any good?”
   “The best,” Honey said, firmly.
   “My, my, she speaks. How’s that throat?”
   Honey cleared her voice carefully.“Better,” she said, and though her
tone was still soft, it was clearer.
   “Marvelous. And what about you? Surely we don’t have two prizefighters
before us tonight?”
   “I used to sing,” Honey said, and hummed a little under her breath.
Ripka really, really wished she’d taken the time to work out a proper
backstory agreement for them both before she’d gone storming off to the
cafe. She’d spent too long with Detan, had grown too used to winging her
maneuvers. That would have to stop. She had watcher training to fall
back on, and to ignore it now would do more than herself a disservice.
   “Of course you did, dear.” There was a patronizing sadness in Latia’s
tone that said clearly that she’d seen this sort of thing all too often:
women who thought they’d be great singers, great performers, cut down by
faulty voices. Ripka wondered how much pity would fill Latia’s heart ifshe knew Honey only sang when she was shedding another’s blood.
   “We met in Petrastad,” Ripka said before Honey could explain herself
further. “Both out of work, and decided to head to Hond Steading for a
fresh start.”
   “Pity,” Dranik said, “that you chose this place. There’s nothing fresh
in these streets.”
   “Piddle,” Latia said.
   “You don’t know how beautiful it is,” Honey murmured.
   “I know,” Latia insisted. “It’s this tosh-head who can’t see the beauty
through his own self-importance. Say, where are you two staying?”
   Honey’s lips parted. Ripka said, “The palace district.”
   Dranik coughed over his cup.“Prizefighting must pay well.”
   “I was very good.” At least that much was true.
   “Well! I was going to invite you to stay awhile, the studio has been so
quiet lately.”
   “You never ask me to stay,” Dranik protested.
   “Quiet ofworthwhile conversation. But! You are new arrivals, yes?”
   “Just last night,” Ripka said.
   “Marvelous. Let me be your ambassador to this sweet city. Tonight, the
Ashfall Lounge, around the seventh mark a friend of mine will sing.
Please do join me.”
   “I don’t know…” Ripka demurred, tried to catch Honey’s eye but the woman
was staring down at her cup.
   “We’ll come,” Honey said.
   “Wonderful!” Latia leapt to her feet and swept the empty cups from their
hands, stacking them one atop the other. “Now I must usher you out, I
feel all bursting with desire to paint – shoo, shoo, all of you.Yes,
you too, Dranik. I shall see you tonight!”
   Before Ripka could so much as thank the woman for her tea and invitation
they were, all three of them, back out on the street, staring at the
door that’d been closed in their faces.
   “Well,” Ripka said.
   “You get used to it.” Dranik ran a hand through his hair. “She gets…
creative fits. Runs off in the middle of dinner sometimes.”
   “You’ve known each other long?”
   He stared at her, wide-eyed, and barked a laugh.“She’s my little
sister.”
   “Little?”
   “I know. She takes after our father.” He paused. “You don’t want to meet
him. See you tonight?”
   “Yes,” Honey agreed.
   Dranik gave them both a quick bow and took off at a brisk stroll. From
within the studio, the sound of banging pots echoed. Ripka frowned at
the door, then looked to Honey.
   “You really want to go tonight?”
   “Yes.” Her expression grew wistful. “I miss singing.”
   “No cutting anyone who doesn’t try to cut you first.”
   Honey sighed the sigh of a long-suffering child, kicked at the dirt, and
gave a sullen nod.
   Chapter Eleven
   Aransa settled into darkness. Detan paced its winding streets, following
the dusty, twisting paths cut into the side of the dormant mountain as
if finding the right path would reveal to him just what in the pits he
was supposed to do now.
   He’ll do. Thratia’s words filled every silent moment of his mind.
Whatever that viper was up to, he didn’t want anything to do with it,
but he could hardly run off now that he’d taken things so far. He had
Thratia’s trust, insomuch as she allowed him to wander her city a free
man, and that was a prize he wasn’t quite ready to squander. With her
trust, he could do a lot of damage to her plans from the inside – if
only he knew what they were, what angle he should take.
   Aransa was quieter than it’d been since he last walked its streets. A
strange hush encapsulated the city, swathed it in muted cotton wool.
Last time he’d been here, night was the time to be on the streets, to be
seen. There’d been raucous parties and overflowing bars. Except for one
night, the night Thratia took control. And it seemed the fear of that
night had yet to die out.
   A red door appeared to his right. Detan stopped cold, drawing a curse
from a man who had been walking behind him. Dust hung heavy on the air,
clung to his boots and his hair. He shoved his hands in his pockets,
stared at that red door a little longer.
   The Red Door Inn. Not the most imaginative name, but in a city full of
working-man taverns and rough-and-tumble gambling halls, it stood out
for the simple fact it wasn’t an allusion to a curse word or a carnal
act. He’d been through that door once. Invited by a sharp-eyed woman
who’d wanted to ask him how he’d lost his sel-sense, so she could save
her daughter from working the mines.
   He hadn’t lost his sense, of course, and though he didn’t tell her that,
he’d tried to make her understand that chasing that path was a dangerous
one. What she’d decided to do to keep her daughter out of that hard, hot
life, Detan didn’t know. Whatever her plan had been, she’d died before
she’d had the chance to see it through. Cut down, bleeding her last on
Thratia’s dock, all because Thratia wanted to pin the murder on Detan.
   The parlor of the Red Door Inn was cool, kept insulated from the desert
heat by its thick mud-stuccoed walls and lack of windows. He didn’t
recall opening the door, but the brass knob was in his hand, and he
stepped into the chandelier light of the entry hall.
   “May I help you, sir?” A man in the red-vested livery of the inn hovered
at his shoulder, his smile pure solicitation. Of course the welcoming
was warmer than last time. Despite the dust on his boots, Detan was a
whole lot cleaner than he’d been the last time he’d stepped through that
door.Aella hadn’t let him take any of his old clothes with him to
Aransa, and so he’d been trussed up in upperclass wear – slim, dark
trousers, a contrasting cream vest, and matching dark jacket. Sometime
along the way, he’d started dressing like the man his auntie had always
wanted him to be. Too bad the inside didn’t match the exterior.
   “A table, please,” he said. The thought of cloistering himself away in
one of the Inn’s private booths drew him like a moth to a flame.
Something strong to drink, and a curtain to pull against the world. In
one of those little booths, he could almost pretend for a moment that
the world outside was friendly.
   The attendant led Detan down the steps of the inn, deep into the bottom
levels where only the richest patrons lingered. Detan wondered,
fleetingly, if Thratia had put the word out amongst high-brow places
that he was residing in her compound now, but cast the thought aside.
No, this wasn’t Thratia’s doing. Between his clothes and the brand on
the back of his neck, Detan had enough cachet on his own to warrant this
flavor of treatment. Didn’t much like being reminded of the fact,
though.
   A familiar voice shook him out of his moping, brash and male, behind the
cloak of a curtained booth. The man called for an attendant, slurring
slightly, not reaching for the bell meant to do the job for him. Detan
froze.
   “Sir?” the attendant asked, all professional concern.
   “I…” he cleared his throat. “I’m going to say hello to an old friend.”
   The attendant followed his glance to the booth with the slurring man and
frowned, weighing the guest’s probable desire for privacy against both
rebuking Detan’s wish and having to deal with the drunken man. He
eventually shrugged, and gestured toward the booth.
   Detan moved before he could think better of it and pulled the curtain.
He sat.
   Renold Grandon peered at him across the thin, lacquered table. Smoke
curled around the man’s eyes, and a glass dangled from his swollen
fingers – twin to a litter of empty glasses filling the narrow table.
Red blotches bloomed like storm cells across his cheeks, and
cactus-prickle stubble clung to his sagging chin.
   Detan did not believe in ghosts. But sitting in that booth, that same
booth where Bel Grandon had summoned him to to ask a question all that
time ago, he thought he could feel her. She was in the smoke swirling
between him and Renold now, in the heady-sweet scent of alcohol in the
stale air. The very memory of her stern gaze forced Detan to sit
straighter with some foolish hope that, if only he presented himself
well, he could do honor to her memory.
   He bore Renold’s drunken stare, and thought of the first time he’d seen
the man. Bloated on his own importance, swaggering with his mistress as
he gallivanted through the Salt Baths. Renold had done nothing to offend
Detan, save being a likely target when Detan was in need.
   Detan had looked at Renold Grandon, and thought,he’ll do.
   And an innocent woman had died.
   And countless futures were snuffed to dust with her passing.
   “You,” Renold said, but there was very little malice in it. Just a wan
sort of tiredness that bit deeper than anger ever could have.
   “Me,” Detan agreed.
   Renold looked at him. Really looked. His swollen face puckered up as he
squinted, digging with his gaze into all the details that made up Detan
now. His clean hair, his expensive clothes. The leanness of his frame,
and perhaps even the slight hunch he harbored due to pain in his
shoulder from Aella’s careful administrations. He swept all this up,
counted it, and with a snort dismissed Detan as irrelevant. Little more
than a fly drawn to the stench of his sorrow.
   “I didn’t–” Detan began, but Renold cut him off with a sharp gesture,
spilling dribbles of liquor down the side of his hand.
   “You didn’t hold the knife that split her throat,” he sneered. “You
don’t have the steel in you. But she does, our fearless commodore, and
you riled her up as sure as a man pulls back a knife hand to strike.”
   Detan swallowed, laced his fingers together under the table to stop
their tremble.“Thratia killed Bel to make you hate me. To make you hunt
me.”
   Renold studied the depths of his glass, as if he could see his dead
wife’s face lurking within. “Told you that, did she? And you believed
her? Dumber than I thought. No. She knew I’d never believe a floundering
fop like you could have ever spilt real blood. Not Bel’s, anyway. That
was a warning for me, not you.”
   A little flare of anger sparked in Detan’s blood, fleeting but sharp.
Sel’s presence loomed in the liqueur, in the lanterns, in the… He shut
his sense down. Forced himself to focus. “And this is how you answer
her?”
   Renold’s bloodshot eyes roamed the empty glasses on the table that his
wife had used so often to host her private meetings. He breathed deep,
let out a slow breath, and pierced Detan with a stare. “Virra, our
daughter, captains a ship in Thratia’s fleet as a sensitive pilot. It
was Bel’s greatestambition to see that Virra never had to work the
mines. Yes. This is how I answer her.” He bared his teeth. “And aren’t
we all just one big happy family?”
   Ill with revulsion, Detan pushed to his feet and staggered through the
curtain that separated that booth from the rest of the world. The cool
opulence of the Red Door Inn pressed all around him, mirroring a deeper
cold, one which ensconced his bones and chest and made him gasp despite
the delicately perfumed air.
   Ignoring the concerned queries of the valet, he dragged himself up the
stairs to the final floor, legs growing heavier with every step, and
only when he was out on the blistering hot streets of Aransa, dust on
his shoes and dry air whipping the moisture from his eyes, his lips, did
he feel he could breathe again.
   He had been so very tempted, walking down these beaten streets to this
pristine door, to flee. To take to the open skies once more. To find
another flier, another path to freedom from duty and consequence. Now
the very thought churned his stomach, broke sweat across his chest and
brow.
   What good was his freedom, when he had done as Thratia? What good was
he, when he had looked at a man and thought:he’ll do, without ever
considering the breadth and depth of the consequences?
   Whatever freedom existed for him out there in the empty sky, he had not
earned it.
   Detan straightened his lapels, stood tall and brushed the dust from his
coat sleeves. Aransa stretched out around him in all directions: the
shanty towns downward, the tenuous government-worker class upward, and
topping it at its very peak, lower only than the city’s highest garden,
Thratia waited.
   She’d looked at him, and said,he’ll do. He knew not what for, yet,
but with the memory-scent of Bel’s cigarillos warm in his nostrils, he
was going to find out. And whatever the consequences were, wherever the
pain fell, Detan would see it through, or break himself trying.
   Chapter Twelve
   Enard caught Ripka by the arm in the hall on her way to Dame Honding’s
sitting room, causing her to nearly jump clear out of her skin.
   “Enard!” she gasped, then stifled a laugh when she saw the embarrassed
shock in his eyes.
   “I apologize, Captain, I thought you had seen me.”
   “Ah, no, that’s my fault.” She ran a hand through her hair and offered
him a small smile. “Between the bright berry tea, and my adventures with
Honey this morning, I’m wound up tighter than a harpoon spring.”
   He frowned.“Tell me.”
   She did. It was so very easy to spill her thoughts to Enard. He listened
attentively, asking pertinent questions, and as she expressed her
suspicion regarding Thratia’s influence in the city via the cafes, his
growing alarm reassured her she had not been mistaken, there was a real
threat lurking within Hond Steading’s walls.
   “That is troubling news. Are you going to report to the Dame?”
   “I had thought as much, I have a few marks yet before that performance
Latia wants us to join her for.”
   “May I go with you? An extra set of eyes and ears couldn’t hurt.”
   She grinned, just a touch.“Are you worried about me?”
   “I – ah – well. You’re perfectly capable, of course, and Honey–”
   She squeezed his shoulder.“It’s all right, Enard. It’s even a little
sweet.”
   He clamped his mouth closed so hard she watched his lips disappear.
   “Come on, let’s see what the Dame thinks.”
   They found the Dame surrounded by her attendants, head bowed as she
listened to a portly young woman explain something that, by the way she
was gesticulating, was of grave importance. Ripka pinched Enard’s sleeve
and they found an out of the way spot toward the back of the room to
wait, just within sight but not intruding. When the five people who had
come to beg the Dame’s ear had said their piece and been sent away, the
Dame fixed her gaze – Detan’s gaze – upon Ripka and curled her fingers
to gesture her forward.
   “Ripka Leshe, Enard Harwit. How are you two finding my city?”
   “It is in danger, Dame.”
   She pursed her lips in a tight smile.“I am aware of such matters.”
   “Not from Thratia’s advance, though that is an obvious threat. No, you
have an insurgency brewing from within.”
   She stiffened, fingers coiling tight around the ends of her chair’s
armrests. “It is only due to my great respect for you as Aransa’s
watch-captain that I ask, so tread carefully: explain, quickly.”
   Ripka began with her time in Aransa, and her too-late discovery of the
honey liqueur crates in which Thratia had hidden her weapons, then moved
onto her brief interview with Captain Lakon, and her trip to the bright
eye berry cafe. She left out the names of Dranik and Latia, but the
implications were strong enough. A taste for revolution was brewing in
Hond Steading, and Thratia had lit that spark.
   The Dame leaned back in her chair, regarding Ripka and Enard in a
silence so stretched Ripka had to resist an urge to fidget. At last, the
Dame said,“Do you know how I spent my morning?”
   “I do not, Dame.”
   She gestured vaguely toward a door to the right of her meeting room.“Negotiating. Treating. Hammering out plans with my empress. Or a
representative of her, at any rate.” She sighed. “Her highness is
unfortunately unable to travel, and her surrogate leaves much to be
desired, in my opinion. Do you know her? Ranalae Lasson?”
   Ripka shook her head.
   “Ah. Then you don’t quite understand.” Her expression twisted, but she
was quick to school it into indifference. “Ranalae. I knew her father, a
kind man, but she is no child of his. She has joined the Bone Tower, and
spearheads the whitecoats. Yes, I see your horror. I would not treat
with them, were there any other option. Rumor has reached me from
Valathea in regard to their methods, and I know Detan was in their
vicious care, tricked away from me. I should have never let him go, but…
They said they could cure him. I should have known better.”
   She pulled herself up, rolled her shoulders as if shaking off a great
weight.“Regardless, Ranalae is who my empress sent, and while she
inquired about Detan’s health she otherwise left the subject alone, she
knows it is thin ground on which to tread. She comes offering me troops,
fortifications. And if Thratia’s insurgency has taken root in my city,
as you claim, thenI need Valathea’s aid more than ever.”
   Ripka swallowed around a dry throat.“At what cost?”
   “Ah.” The Dame smiled. “I knew you were no fool. They ask I rescind Hond
Steading’s independent status. That we become a vassal of Valathea in
whole, turned over to their rule and their law.” She waved a hand. “No
more forums. No more watchers hired by my choosing. It’d mean Fleetmen
taking over the streets, while the power transitioned. And, upon my
death, they’d appoint a warden of their choosing. Certainly they would
allow the illusion of a vote, but the matter would be settled long ahead
of time. The Hondings would no longer own this land, we would lease it.
And Detan would never be able to return to his home without fear of
capture by those–” She cleared her throat. “By his enemies.”
   Ripka’s stomach soured. “You would do this?”
   “Valathea’s hand on Hond Steading’s tiller, or Thratia’s. I am honestly
not convinced that either is the better option. Now I lean toward
Valathea, as they at least I know well. The Honding family was once
ruled by that governance, and I trust my empress, if not her envoys. We
would only goback to how things were in the early days of the city’s
settlement. I do not think the upheaval would be so great.”
   “How long until the Valathean troops arrive?”
   “Two weeks, perhaps. The monsoons may hold them back, but they were
already prepared to fly.”
   “And when must you give your answer?”
   “My dear, I have already given it.”
   Ripka clasped her hands behind her back so that the Dame could not see
her tighten her fists.“They would have to pass the message. Even with
signal flags and the finest runners it would be a while before the
troops received orders to move. Thratia is already on her way, or so I
surmise. She may be here before them.”
   “And if she is, Valathea will be the hammer that smashes them against
the anvil of our city. But I have faith that Thratia is not completely
mad. She will see reason, I hope, and realize her defeat has already
been made.”
   “And in the meantime, do I have your permission to root out Thratia’s
network here in the city?”
   She flicked her fingers, as if brushing the idea away.“If it entertains
you, yes. I know you are a woman of action. And the information will be
very useful to Valathea, once they arrive.”
   Ripka tucked her head in acknowledgement.“Thank you, Dame.”
   The Dame dismissed them by turning to a nearby attendant. Back in the
hall, heart pounding in her throat, Ripka made a sharp right and angled
for the stairs that led up to the smaller airship docks. Enard jogged at
her heels, and though her breath came hot and her legs burned from the
speed at which she took the stairs, she did not slow down. Not even for
a moment.
   “Where are we going?” Enard asked, a little breathless.
   “To find Tibal. I find myself in sudden need of an airship.”
   “What for?”
   “I’m going to stop that messenger.”
   Chapter Thirteen
   With every step she took up the long tower stairs, Ripka cursed Tibal
for picking a room so high above all the others. Enard’s steady panting
at her heels cheered her, for at least she wasn’t the only one
struggling with the climb.
   “Why he chose the top of this hideous tower…” she muttered.
   “I believe he did not wish to be bothered.”
   She snorted.“Should have known better. Now I’m just going to be annoyed
when I finally get to him.”
   “I would not wish to be on the other side of your ire.”
   The simple admiration in his tone both warmed her and sent a thread of
nervousness throughout her. She had no time to think of such things– to
explore the fine edges of her affections. The task she had set herself,
saving this doomed city from both Thratia and Valathea, securing its
independence as a beacon in the Scorched, was too great. The fall of
Aransa, her failure to protect those people, shadowed every crevice of
her thoughts. To succeed here, to save Hond Steading, would do more than
fulfill a duty. It would return to her a piece of herself.
   She reached the top of the tower, damp with sweat, and took a moment to
lean over her knees and catch her breath.
   The door to Tibal’s suite of rooms was shut, a foreboding silence
leaking out all around it. The harsh rasp of her breath and the steady
thump of her heart were the only sounds, so high up in the squared-off
tower of the Honding family palace. Dame Honding had called this tower
the crow’s nest, for its height and the airship moorings along its top.
Ripka wondered just how crow-like Tibal had become in his self-imposed
isolation.
   When her breath was settled, she straightened her back and knocked.
Nothing.
   “Tibal,” she called, “it’s Ripka and Enard. Open up.”
   A soft scraping– boot leather against stone? – and a rustling of cloth.
She held her breath, swallowing impatience. Every moment that ticked
away she imagined that messenger flying away from Hond Steading, coming
closer to completing his task and delivering the future of this once
independent city-state into the hands of Valathea for good.
   The door jerked open. Tibal was silhouetted in bright sunlight, his
dusty hair gone ragged and twisted out in all directions. Pale dust
limned the cracks in his dark hands, his cheeks, and the wrench hanging
from his fingers seemed as if it had grown there, forever a part of him.
A wildness whispered in the corners of his eyes, a glint of something
feral– something that had rejected human company.
   The light shifted under the stroke of a wooly cloud, and the harsh lines
of him were smoothed away, that animalistic gleam faded to dust. He was
just Tibal again. Tired, and grieving, but Tibal all the same.
   “Captain,” he said real slow, dragging his gaze over the two winded
friends that stood in his doorway.
   “I hate to bother you, but I need use of the flier. Quickly.”
   A sour twitch took up residence at the corner of his lips. He glanced
down at the wrench in his hand, turned it over so the harsh sunlight
falling into the room from behind painted sunsets in the tool’s oil.
   “She’s not ready.”
   In that moment, she knew he was talking about himself. Dancing around
the gnawing pain in his chest, using the little flier as a shield
between him and the world he’d shunned. She took a breath, knowing that
what she had to do was unkind, but that she had to do it all the same.
   “She’s right there, Tibal. I can see her, docked over your shoulder.
She’s buoyant, and you wouldn’t stake her out there if she didn’t have
navigation abilities, would you? I know you. You’d bring her in, deflate
the sacks and lay out all her pieces to be put back together again.”
   He glanced over his shoulder to the airdock that was the balcony of his
room, and the little flier beyond, drifting lazily in the stale breeze.
His bushy eyebrows raised, as if seeing it for the first time, and he
nodded to himself.
   “That’s the next step. Taking her apart to see what needs mending before
I build her up again.”
   “Tibal,” she said, “please.”
   He blinked at her, as if seeing her for the first time. There was more
between them than she could ever address in this moment– her questions
about his heritage, her want to soothe his pain. But Tibal’d always been
a practical man. She willed him to feel her desperation, to put aside
the storm between them and help her now, when time was so crucial. He
weighed the wrench in his hand, and nodded to himself.
   “What do you need her for?”
   She explained the Dame’s plans in brief – the fleet of Valatheans
waiting on the northern coast, the messenger flying to them now with the
terrible invitation to come, to set up their stakes in this city that
had been so long independent of greater powers. Tibal pursed his lips
and shook his head.
   “Don’t see the point. And anyway, theLarkspur would get you there
faster. Go talk to Pelkaia.”
   “You know damned well Pelkaia’s moored to the north. She’s faster, but
by the time I got to her the damage would already be done.” Ripka gave
up on swallowing her anger and stepped closer, pushing Tibal back,
letting her voice show her scorn. “Valathea comes in here, it won’t mean
protection for the city. Reinforcements, sure, but Valatheans in the
streets will just churn the waters for Thratia. I don’t know what
happened to her to make her scorn them so, but she hates the empire –
and seeing them set up in the city she desires won’t keep it safe. It’ll
just encourage her to dig in deeper, to roll us all back into the sand.”
   “Thratia’s rule, Valathea’s. Who says the Dame has a healthier grip on
this city than either of those two forces? They all look the same from
where I’m standing, don’t see much point in throwing in a chit with
either faction.”
   “You can’t mean that. You saw the terror Thratia infused in the streets.
You heard Detan’s horror stories of his time in Valathea. Anyone – any
institution – that would treat another human being like that, like
tools, like puzzles meant to be broken out and pieced back together
again, they’re not worthy of rule. The Hondings aren’t perfect but
they’re willing to listen to their people – that’s the right path.”
   “If they’re so keen on caring for their citizens, then why’s Detan
running around willingly under Thratia’s power?”
   “You know damned well he made that trade just to get us off the
Remnant.”
   “You weren’t there.” He flung the wrench to the side and it clanged
against the hard stone floor. “You don’t know how his mind had changed
leading up to that moment. If you’d seen him, if you’d heard him–” Tibal
cut himself off, shook his head and scowled. “He left this city to rot,
so why should we care what happens to it?”
   “You mean he left you.”
   They stared at one another hard, letting tension build between them
until it was twisted up tight enough to snap. Enard cleared his throat
delicately.
   “The messenger?”
   “Right. You got a choice, Tibal. You fly me after that messenger, now,
or I take the flier on my own. No other option.”
   His lip curled, and without another word he turned and stomped toward
the dock. Ripka swallowed her guilt down. This was desperate, important,
and she didn’t have time to argue about Detan’s motives.
   Not so much as a rug softened Tibal’s room. Tools speckled the floor,
and every available flat surface. His bed was smooth, the sheets pulled
with military precision. She wondered if he’d made the bed, or if he
simply hadn’t bothered sleeping in it.
   The flier had been stripped down, every ding, every stain, every hint of
the personality it had garnered over the years sanded away into so much
dust. The sight of its wood, bare and gleaming as if new, in the harsh
desert sun grew a knot in Ripka’s chest. Piece by piece, layer by layer.
Tibal was excavating Detan from his life.
   “Where is this damned messenger headed, exactly?” Tibal hauled ropes and
manipulated the dozens of little wheels and levers attached to the nav
podium Ripka still had only the fuzziest of ideas on how to use.
   “Left the palace fleet docks and headed straight north, I’d guess. The
Valathean delegates are anchored just off the coast.”
   “Figures they’d stick to where the air’s cooler,” Tibal muttered to
himself. “Yank the anchor rope, and let’s get this over with this. You
got a plan?”
   “Not yet,” she confessed.
   Tibal snorted.“Bad habit.”
   She ignored the jibe as she yanked the anchor rope free. The flier slid
out into the hot sky, thready cloud cover doing little at all to shield
them from the sun’s glare. Ripka wrapped her hair in a scarf, tugging
the front of it out and down just enough to shade her eyes. Tibal had
his hat, singed and grey, and Enard found a beaten old straw thing that
looked ridiculous atop his perfectly coiffed black hair.
   As the flier gained speed, wind cooled the sun’s bite. Knowing she
risked a burn, Ripka tipped her head back to the sun, let the warmth of
it seep through her skin straight to her bones. She liked to imagine the
Scorched’s sun could erase the chill that’d taken root in her marrow
during her time on the Remnant. Liked to imagine the warmth that had
been a part of her life since her birth would welcome her home.
   Months she’d been back on the mainland of the Scorched, and still she
felt a chill ache in her fingers, a lingering stiffness in her knees.
   “There’s our bird,” Enard said.
   A sleek, thin-bellied flier painted brilliant russet smeared the blue of
the sky like an old scab. From its buoyancy sacks flew brilliant banners
boasting the seal of Hond Steading, and by extension its ruling family.
A few other small craft dotted the sky, most dark and low and obviously
behaving as ferries for goods or people. There was no other official
ship in sight, and the narrow flier was straining hard for the north.
   “Can we catch her?” she asked Tibal.
   He rolled those wiry shoulders and cranked hard on the wheels, letting
the fine gear ratios add urgency to the propellers. The flier lurched
forward eagerly.“Hope you got a plan,” he said, but there was a gleam
in his eye like hunger. Like he’d scented his prey and was warming to
the hunt.
   Ripka turned away so he wouldn’t see her smile. She positioned herself
toward the fore of the flier, the semaphore flags for boarding gripped
tight in her fists. She felt a little silly up there, wearing little
more than snug-fitting breeches and a plain tunic in shades of ochre.
Her arms were bare to the sun and the breeze, only the wrap around her
hair giving her any real defense against the Scorched’s weather.
   Without the borrowed authority of her watcher coat ensconcing her, she
wondered just how she’d bluff her way through this. No weapons. No
badge. No right to make any orders at all. She didn’t even have a
fruitknife on her.
   At the thought of kitchenware, her thoughts turned to Honey and she
winced. She should have brought that woman along, instead of leaving her
to her own devices in the palace– or worse, the city. Loyal as Honey
was, there was no telling what she’d get up to if she grew too bored.
   “Fast as she’ll go,” Tibal called out.
   And not fast enough at all. Ripka caught herself leaning forward as if
the cant of her body could urge the little flier onward. The Honding
messenger had grown closer as Tibal’s flier gained speed, close enough
for Ripka to make out the lone man on its deck – a sel-sensitive, no
doubt, one of the city’s elite pilots sent to deliver the message with
all haste and care – but they could draw no closer. A gulf of empty sky
hung between the two ships.
   “No luck, Captain,” Tibal said.
   “What if we were to wave an emergency flag?” Enard asked.
   Ripkahmmed. The messenger was the closest craft in the sky, and as an
official delegate of the city would be honor-bound to come to their aid.
There was risk in explaining away the deception once the messenger grew
close enough to board, but Ripka thought she might be able to wave the
messenger’s suspicions away with explanations of urgency.
   She found herself wishing for Detan’s easy charm, and pushed the thought
away. Whatever he was up to, he was no immediate help to her now. And
anyway, she’d spent weeks stewing on the Remnant, hiding who she was,
masking her real purpose. Though her watcher training still chafed at
the deceptions she’d woven, she’d come to accept that a few little lies
were nothing in the face of a worthwhile cause. Especially if they were
the only way to achieve her goal.
   “Wave the flag,” she ordered.
   Enard pushed to the fore rail and waved the emergency flag, a brilliant
splash of crimson against the pristine sky. There was nothing subtle in
this message, no effort at communicating detail. The empty stretch of
red screamed one thing only: help. Ripka had only ever seen it waved
once before in earnest, and even though she knew they were safe, the
jarring stretch of it made her palms sweat with unease.
   Squinting against the brightness, Ripka could just make out the hesitant
tilt of the messenger’s head as he caught sight of their flag, then
scanned the horizon to see if any ships were nearer. No luck for him. He
came to their aid, or no one did. To add emphasis to their distress, she
waved her arms above her head, feigning excitement that he had seen
them.
   The messenger visibly sighed, then began the process of swinging the
ship around.
   “Got him,” she said, and caught herself grinning. She really was
developing a taste for deception.
   The messenger’s ship closed the gap quickly, slipping up alongside
Tibal’s heavier flier. The messenger himself was a stocky young man in
the tight-cut uniform of the Honding household, the only item about his
person less than pristine were the well-worn boots on his feet denoting
his position as messenger.No messenger worth their salt would be caught
dead in stiff, unbroken-in shoes.
   “What trouble?” he boomed in a deep, clear voice.
   Enard and Tibal both looked to Ripka, and for just a moment she froze,
having no idea what to say next.
   “Dame Honding sent me,” she blurted.
   The messenger’s brows shot up and he took a wary step backward. “I don’t
recognize you, and this is no official ship.”
   Ripka summoned all the easy arrogance of authority she’d ever possessed,
cocked her hips, and sauntered toward the rail. “Do you not know me?”
She swept the wrap from her hair dramatically, as if revealing the whole
of her face should spark some memory. “I am Ripka Leshe, watch-captain
of fallen Aransa, advisor to your dame. Please tell me youare notthat oblivious to palace matters.”
   The messenger’s cheeks flushed deep and he twisted his sleeve between
his fingers. “I’m sorry, but I wasn’t informed. Miss? Captain? I, uh–”
He cleared his throat and glanced toward the navigation podium. “I have
orders to attend. If your ship is in no danger, then–”
   “I am delivering you new orders,” she snapped. The poor young man
flinched and visibly repressed an urge to snap her a salute. She held
out her hand across the space between the ships, fingers unfurled. “Hand
me your parcel.”
   He went white as his sails.“That is very much against protocol.”
   She snapped her fingers impatiently.“War is coming to Hond Steading,
young man. Do you think your precious protocol will remain unchanged?
Quickly, now, this ship is slower but we may still catch the delegation
before the sun sets.”
   “You’re to deliver the message?” he asked, torn between relief and
incredulity.
   “Of course I am! Do you think for a sand-cursed moment it’s a good idea
to send a green-chin like you to a delegation from the empress? Skies
above, this city is such a mess – forgive my saying so – but this isno way to handle diplomacy.”
   “I, ah – I didn’t think it was so important, you know, just following
orders…”
   “Less jawing, more handing me that parcel.”
   She snapped her fingers again, and he scrambled like a sand flea dunked
in a booze bath. The message was removed from a locked chest tucked
behind the podium, its creamy paper tied off with a thick, silken ribbon
stamped over with Dame Honding’s personal seal. The messenger passed it
to her, hand trembling, and she hoped he was too nervous to notice she
held her breath.
   “Finally,” she said, and tucked the message under her arm. “Back to your
barracks, now, and tell your master the message was delivered with
care.”
   “Yes ma’am!” He snapped her a sloppy salute and scrambled off, pointing
his little craft toward the Honding palace docks.
   Ripka let loose a breath so deep her shoulders slumped from the force of
it leaving. Enard grinned at her, but her own smile was snuffed by
Tibal’s sour stare.
   “Almost saw the ghost of Honding, there.”
   “Funny. I see a real flesh-and-blood Honding right here.”
   He went very, very still. She swallowed, hard, regretting the words as
soon as she’d said them. She was too jittery. Too anxious over what
she’d done to keep her damned mouth shut. The parcel under her arm
dragged at her, heavy as the treason she’d just committed. It was one
thing to con her way into a prison; that was to free a good man. It was
another entirely to undermine the direct orders of a lawfully ruling
woman – one whom she respected, at that. She felt sick. Tibal’s hard
stare made her feel sicker.
   “Point us toward the north,” she said crisply, covering her anxiety with
a veneer of professional calm. Seemed all she had left was a collection
of veneers, nowadays. She wondered if this was what it was like to be
Pelkaia, never quite sure of which face she was going to wear for the
moment, let alone the day. “We don’t want the messenger thinking we’re
doubling back so soon. Then we’ll bring the flier home, so you can tear
her apart.”
   “Don’t be coming to me for help with this nonsense again.”
   “Hadn’t planned on it.”
   Ripka faced the sea-kissed northern winds, her back to Tibal so she
wouldn’t have to see the hurt in him, and wondered where things had all
begun to fall apart.
   Chapter Fourteen
   Given the opportunity to be elsewhere, not even Thratia’s lackeys were
populating her compound. Detan’s boots echoed in the empty entryway, the
angry brightness of the chandeliers not enough to penetrate the shadows
that gathered in the high ceilings. A few staff dotted the place, seeing
to the type of menial chores Detan had spent most of his lifetrying to
pretend didn’t exist. If Tibs hadn’t made him dust the flier on
occasion, he probably wouldn’t know which end of a broom was up.
   Despite the meager audience, he sauntered past the single, half-asleep
guard at the door and slapped a pompous grin on his face. Body language
wasn’t just about fooling onlookers, after all. The demeanors he
switched as often as he changed his longjohns – often enough, thank you
kindly – were just as much about convincing him of his adopted role as
they were about fooling others.
   And he could really use some convincing now.
   A glimpse of pale blue silk caught his eye, the silhouette under the
long robe tickling his memory. The young woman’s head was turned down as
she flipped through a heavy ledger, her body canted away, but he
recognized her all the same.
   “Aella.”
   Her head lifted, and she scanned the room until she found him coming
toward her. She placed a tight, practiced smile on her small face.“Did
you enjoy your wander through the city?”
   He wasn’t about to let her drag him around with smalltalk the same way
he did everyone else. “I didn’t recognize you without your coat.”
   “Ah. That.” She looked down at herself, as if seeing the pale dress for
the first time. It fit her well, ending just above the ankle bone, the
shoulder seams crisp at the top of her arms. He’d never seen her in
anything like it before, though there was no way she could have had
something madefor herself so quickly since their arrival. Thratia’s
work, then. Seemed Detan wasn’t the only one concerned with maintaining
appearances. He just couldn’t figure out what angle Thratia was working.
   “Warden Ganal reminded me that I was no longer a whitecoat. And while
she allows Callia to wear the garment – shedoes moan if you take it
away– the Warden wants her people to bear as little resemblance to that
particular institution as possible.”
   “But youare a whitecoat.”
   She shook her head, hand slipping across the ledger she held to obscure
the words written there.“I gave them up when I entered Thratia’s
employ. They would not welcome my return now, and I am pleased with my
current position. The Warden treats me well.”
   “Does she? Or does she just treat you less poorly than Callia did?”
   “I see no point in the distinction.”
   A flare of anger, just a brief simmer, that she would embrace the role
she’d been crafted for so thoroughly while he fled from his own mold.
“You are perpetuating what she did to you, what she crafted you to be.
Callia’s mind is gone, Aella. You don’t have to please her, to follow in
her shadow. There are places in this world Thratia and Valathea cannot
reach, and you of all people have the strength to reach them if you so
chose.”
   She lifted both brows at him, tucking the ledger beneath her arm.“I am
no more a prisoner here than you are. Or will you tell me now you are
being held against your will? That you desire to flee and cannot?”
   “Why do you stay?” His breath rasped, his fists clung to the air at his
sides, color rashed his collarbone and cheeks.
   “I think…” She pursed her lips at him, tilted her head to the side. “I
think you’re asking yourself that question.”
   With a condescending pat on the arm and a faux-sympathetic smile, Aella
turned and made her way up the steps to some upper room, some inner
sanctum to which he was not privy. Detan watched her go, breathing
slowly, trying to calm his twitching nerves. The functions of the
compound moved on around him. Servants tended to household needs while
Thratia’s people worked on all the little plans that made her interests
move forward.
   Not a one of them paid him any mind. He was certain that if he stopped
one, asked direction or assistance, they would provide it to him.
Perfunctorily, as a matter of their duty to their mistress. Surely he
had a room, somewhere. Surely he could take a meal if he so chose–
demand fresh clothes, a bath, any of the little everyday facets of a
life.
   But he did not belong here. They had no need of him, no care for him.
Not even Aella seemed interested in him any more, now that she had other
tasks to attend to. He stood rudderless in a sea of someone else’s
making and felt himself come adrift.
   Detan could bear a lot of indignity, but being ignored was simply
galling.
   He strode across the wide hall that’d once hosted a gala he’d crashed
and angled toward the steps up to the airship dock. If he were going to
be forgotten about, he’d use the time to prepare something for them to
remember him by.
   He swooped out onto the dock, pushing the doors wide, prepared to charm
his way past guards and caretakers to make his way onto Aella’s
transport vessel. He hadn’t expected to see Thratia herself, leaning
against the soft curve of the u-dock’s rail, the dock clear of every
other soul.
   If she’d heard him enter, she made no sign of it. She rested her
forearms against the smooth rail, fingers interlaced, stooping to lean
against the railing. He’d never seen her slouched before, had never seen
her in any posture save ramrod straight.
   Desert wind pushed her short hair against her scarred cheek, the ebony
flesh tinged pink even in the warm glow of the oil lamps. Night crept
in, reaching to meet her from across the horizon, bruised-purple and
blue fingers of darkness lying in sheets against her skin. There was
something intimate in the way she merged with the encroaching night.
   “Did you enjoy your walk?” she asked.
   He flinched, glad she wasn’t looking at him, his bravado evaporating.
Here was the woman he meant to undermine. To keep from his home as if
she were a viper and he the charmer, tangled together in a dance that
could leave either one of them killed. And in that moment, watching the
colors of the sun bleed out across her pucker-scarred cheek, he knew he
did not understand her. Knew nothing about her, truly.
   She was strong and brave and fierce and cruel, and rumors about her spun
themselves into sand-devils all across the Scorched. They called her
General Throatslitter. She’d been too hungry for power for Valathea to
keep her. Exiled, kicked from the isles that’d been her home, to this
dusty stretch of endless sand and sel she’d come, and rebuilt herself.
And he did not know why, save that she wanted it. But want alone wasn’t
enough to move most people.
   Something had moved Thratia Ganal. Something besides the stories people
told about her, something she kept close.
   Something he could use.
   “City’s gotten quiet,” he said. She didn’t move, didn’t so much as cock
her head his way, so he sauntered over, adopting all the lazy
affectations he’d refined over the years, to stand beside her.
   Aransa really was beautiful from up here. Purple shadows draped the
brown and yellow stones of the city’s deep-cut layers, smearing into
hints of red and black spotted through with the warm glow of hearth
fires and the sharper punch of candles and lamps, scattered like stars.
Last time he’d seen this view, he hadn’t been properly positioned to
appreciate it. It was hard to admire a landscape when you were pretty
certain you’d just jumped to your death.
   “They’re frightened,” she said.
   “Because of you.”
   She snorted. A warm burst of air, shoulders jerking forward. Her breath
smelled of bright berry tea, and he was brought back to that terrible
moment when she’d leaned into him on this dock all that time ago and
whispered, hot, against his ear:I’m going to forge you an enemy.
   “I won’t deny that. But this is better than the alternative.”
   “Living without fear?”
   “Blissful ignorance. Blind vulnerability. They’re safer now, whether
they realize it or not.”
   “Because General Throatslitter has claimed them as her chattel? Better
to be slaves, than enemies?”
   She shook her head, slow and sad, like a parent disappointed in a
particularly thick-headed child. When the sun had given itself up to the
night she half-turned, leaning her hip against the rail, and regarded
him with slow care. He bit back a wisecrack and turned to face her
instead.
   “It’s funny. You almost look like a lord.”
   “Almost like I was born to it.”
   “Raised to it, maybe. You know better than most it doesn’t matter what
womb you pop out of, so long as you act the part.”
   “And what part have you been acting?”
   Her smile slipped like a faultline.“Why don’t I show you?”
   He swallowed.“What do you mean?”
   Thratia pushed away from the rail, stood straight once more and turned
her knife-sharp gaze down upon him.“It’s time you met the Saldivians.”
   Chapter Fifteen
   Ripka opened the door to her room to find Honey sitting at the foot of
her bed. She clutched a linen-wrapped bundle to her lap like it was a
life raft, fingers tangled in the twine holding it together.
   “Honey?”
   She jerked to attention and skittered to her feet, holding the bundle
tight with one arm. It was just the right size to have wrapped up a
head, or a couple of hands. Ripka pushed the thought away and forced
herself to step into her room.
   “I couldn’t find you,” Honey murmured. It wasn’t an accusation, just a
simple statement of fact – I couldn’t find you, so I waited here. Ripka
shrugged and adjusted the weight of the messenger’s orders in her
pocket, trying to keep a sudden surge of guilt off her face.
   “Sorry, I was up on the flier with Tibal. Did you need me?”
   “Here.” Honey thrust the bundle toward her. She bit back an urge to
recoil from the package and took it gingerly. It was lighter than she’d
expected from the size, and squished pleasantly in her hands like an
overstuffed pillow.
   “What’s this?”
   “For you.”
   Ripka raised both her brows at Honey in question, but she just watched
expectantly, her lips pursed as if she were humming an internal tune.
The last gift Honey had given Ripka had been a shiv carved from a wooden
spoon. At least this bundle didn’t have any suspiciously hard edges.
   She placed it on the bed and wiggled the knotted strings free, peeling
back the shopkeeper’s muslin. Fabric spilled out, in deep tones of
crimson and sienna, and it took Ripka a moment to register what she was
looking at. Clothes, civilian clothes, cut to modern style in long
body-hugging tunics over complementary slim-legged trousers. There was
one tunic in bloodstone red, leggings in mustard ochre, and another
tunic in rich burnt sienna with crimson leggings. Not the most expensive
of dyes, but the depth of their color spoke to their cost.
   “These are for me?” she asked dumbly, running the rock-polished material
between her fingers. They were thick, sturdy, and smooth.
   “You dress like a watcher,” was all Honey said.
   Ripka looked down at her undyed trousers and loose tunic, both of which
were common off-duty wear for watchers in all cities across the
Scorched, and burst into a fit of laughter. Even without her blue coat,
the messenger had been able to recognize her for what she was. It seemed
Ripka was the only one who felt she’d lost her authority with her
jacket.
   “I… Thank you, Honey. Where in the pits did you find these?” She held up
the red tunic and pressed it against her torso. No surprise, it fit
perfectly.
   Honey’s lips twisted into a skewed smile. “I know how to find a market,
Captain.”
   She flushed.“I didn’t mean–”
   “It’s all right. I know you wonder about me. But I’m fine, Captain.
Honest.”
   Whatever‘fine’ meant to Honey, Ripka couldn’t even begin to guess. The
woman’s motives were as opaque to Ripka as an afternoon sandstorm. With
care, she took one of the crimson head scarves from the package and
wrapped her hair. Honey watched with avid eyes, though her fingers never
stopped drumming against her thigh.
   Sunlight slanted through Ripka’s half-pulled window, setting the room
alight in golden rays that emphasized the amber tones of Honey’s fluffy
hair. She’d chopped it to chin length on the trip north to Hond
Steading, so that the curls grew tighter without the weight of length
and sprang and bobbed about her cheeks as if they had a mind of their
own. In her civilian clothes, without the stigma of a Remnant jumpsuit,
Ripka mused that they almost looked like sisters. Two daughters of the
Scorched, with light-toned hair and darker skin, though Honey ran to a
fuller figure than Ripka ever had. In the domestic intimacy of her room,
the sweet scent of beeswax candles on the air, Ripka found a question
she’d avoided bubbling to her lips.
   “Honey, why did you help me, when the riot broke out? You must have
known I had been a watcher, just like the warden said, but you told that
man that I wasn’t.”
   Honey stopped drumming and tipped her head to the side, round eyes
glinting as she shifted her gaze to the window. Sere air gusted in,
ruffling her hair. She pursed her lips and shrugged.“I liked you. I
didn’t like them.”
   Ripka bit back an urge to point out thatthem in this case meant the
entire population of the Remnant.“Maybe you shouldn’t have. It put you
in a lot of danger. I’m still worried about Forge and Clink. We should
never have left them behind.” Her voice caught, and she swallowed a
surge of pain.
   “They’ll be fine.”
   “How can you know?”
   “Clink likes to start trouble. Has lots of practice.”
   Ripka grinned a little.“Is that why she brought me into her fold?”
   “No. Because I asked her to.”
   Ripka bit her tongue. What she wanted to know, the question that gnawed
deep inside her, she couldn’t dive straight toward. She’d tried that
once, on the trip up to Hond Steading. In a quiet moment, when no one
was near enough to overhear, she’d asked how Honey had come to be in the
Remnant, and why the other inmates had been so frightened of her.
Honey’d just smiled and hummed to herself until Ripka changed the
subject.
   “How did you meet Clink?”
   “I ate by myself. Then Clink came, and I sat next to her. She didn’t
mind.”
   “Did she say why?”
   Honey shook her head.
   “And Forge?”
   “She came later. Clink picked her.”
   “Why’d you pick me?”
   Honey’s head swiveled until she was staring straight into Ripka’s eyes,
a little smile twitching up the corners of her lips. “You’re
interviewing me, Captain.”
   Ripka flushed.“I’m sorry, Honey. Old habits – it’s just, there’s so
much about you I don’t know.”
   “Likewise.”
   The point stuck. Here Ripka was, drilling Honey for her past, while
staying tight-lipped about her own. It was her watcher training. She’d
identified Honey as potentially dangerous – and reasonably so – and
immediately shifted her into the category of suspect, skipping over the
possibility of a friend. Honeywas dangerous, she had no doubt of
that, but if Ripka looked hard enough at herself, she had to acknowledge
she wasn’t much different. Maybe her flavor of violence was worse, too –
she justified it, used the common good as an excuse to condone all her
actions.
   She shook herself. Her watcher coat was gone, there were no more legal
justifications for her to ease her conscience with. Any heads she
cracked would be done so illegally, any infiltration without government
approval. She’d been cut loose, mind stuffed full of tools she no longer
had the legal right to use, no matter Watch-captain Falston’s implicit
endorsement of her actions.
   And yet she was using them. In the defense of Hond Steading, yes, but
using them without allowance all the same. She was playing this game
from Detan’s level, now, outside the law and also free of its
constraints.
   She eyed Honey. Whatever that woman had done to end up in the Remnant,
Ripka was desperate to know. But in the end it wasn’t really any of her
business. So long as Honey kept her knives to herself, or pointed at
throats that meant her real harm, Ripka had no right to police Honey’s
past. She was here, now. Had thrown her lot in with Ripka and her cause.
And Ripka was rapidly running out of allies.
   Not to mention friends.
   Ripka unrolled the bundle of clothes onto the bed.“Help pick an outfit
for tonight. We’d better hurry or we’re going to be late to meet Latia
and Dranik.”
   Her eyes brightened.“We’re going?”
   “Said we would, didn’t we? And anyway, I think Dranik is into something.
I’d bet my blues – ah, I mean pride – that Thratia is using the cafes to
smuggle weapons to her supporters, same as she did with the honey
liqueur in Aransa. If we can catch her at it, feel out the extent of her
network, we might be able to stop an uprising happening the moment
Thratia arrives at the city’s gates.”
   “Is she really that bad?”
   Of course. Honey must have been imprisoned long before Thratia’s rise to
power. Ripka nodded, sorting through the clothes with Honey at her side.
“She’s an efficient ruler, I’ll give her that, but she takes choices
away from people, uses them like commodities, and that’s something I
just can’t stomach.”
   Honey nodded, firmly.“We’ll stop her.”
   In that moment, with the sun gleaming down upon a selection of new
clothes gifted to her by a friend– quite possibly the first real friend
Ripka’d had since the watch, since Detan and Tibal – she found herself
smiling as a warm curl of hope unfolded within her. “Yeah. I think we
might just pull it off.”
   Chapter Sixteen
   Detan was disappointed to discover that the Saldivians looked rather a
lot like the rest of the peoples of Valathea and the Scorched. He’d been
hoping for something a little more extreme: perhaps a squat people, or
maybe a wild skin color like red or blue. But the people sitting before
him now looked positively normal by Valathean body standards, if a
little strange in the clothing department.
   Thratia’s guests enjoyed a suite of rooms on the top level of her
compound, large arched doorways leading out to thin patios so that they
could survey the city. The curtains on those doors were drawn now,
fluttering in the night breeze. The pale linen looked as if clouds had
blown into the room. The Saldivians sat cross-legged on cushions on the
floor, a mat containing a bright berry tea set and plates of baked goods
between them.
   They were, he supposed, a little shorter than Valathean standard, but
they still had the thin limbs and narrow features common to the region.
Two men and a woman looked up at him, blinking with curiosity, teacups
cradled with ease in the palms of their hands. The woman put her cup
down and stuffed a pastry into her mouth, chewing noisily.
   Their clothes were not in the slim-cut style Valathea and the Scorched
favored– a style evolved for easy work, and safety around the many
whirling gears and machinery of airships and their correspondent
technologies. The Saldivians had gone wild with bolts of fabric,
swathing themselves in great voluminous wraps. Detan rather thought they
looked as if they’d tangled themselves in the curtains and just decided
to live with it.
   “Hullo,” he chirruped at them, and gave them a wiggle of his fingers.
He’d be damned if Thratia made him go through the dance of politic
introductions. He only bowed his head over his hands for those he felt
deserved the respect that gesture signified, no matter their station in
life. Or those he wanted to believe he respected, at any rate.
   “This,” Thratia interjected smoothly, “is Lord Detan Honding.”
   There she went, calling him a lord again. She’d been trotting out that
title at every opportunity, as if it really meant something any more,
and the realization was beginning to make his skin crawl. What leverage
did she think she could wrangle from having a disgraced lord
press-ganged into her entourage?
   “Seas bless our meeting,” the youngest of the men said. His accent
startled Detan, who was used to hearing only the rolling syllables of
Valathea and the clipped speech of the Scorched. The Saldivian had a
muddied way of speaking, as if each syllable was a heavy thing and left
a coating in his mouth. He was maybe in his thirties, though Detan’d be
hard pressed to bet on the fact, with the other man old enough to have
some deep wrinkles and his hair all wave-crest white. The woman was
about the young man’s age, maybe younger, though it was hard for Detan
to pin anything down on them for sure.
   Thratia inclined her head to the older man.“This is Ossar, once a
chieftain of the Saldive Isles and now functioning as a diplomat here in
Aransa. Iessa,” she nodded to the girl, “is his daughter, and Rensair
her husband. Rensair’s Valathean is the best of the bunch, though
Iessa’s is much improved since their arrival.”
   The young woman smiled, recognizing both her name and at the very least
the tone of a compliment. Their names sounded strange to Detan– soft
and hissy, like a wave breaking against a stone.
   Before Thratia could make her presence more keenly felt, Detan plopped
to the ground cross-legged at the empty edge of their tea mat and rested
his hands on his knees, offering big smiles all around. Whatever reason
Thratia had for dragging him here to meet these strange people, he was
not about to let her take the reins. Purely on principle. He might be
under Aella’s thumb, but he had his pride to think about.
   “What brings your lovely family to sunny Aransa?” he asked, high-toned,
as if this were just a friendly chat between tourists passing one
another in a tavern.
   Rensair leaned toward him, foam-grey eyes brightening with interest.
Detan chose to focus on the young man and ignore the scowl Ossar threw
him.“We come on Thratia’s invitation.” Rensair spoke slowly,
constructing his sentence with care.
   “Matters in the Saldive Isles–” Thratia began, but Detan held up a hand
to cut her off.
   “You want me to hear what they have to say, then let them say it.” He
spoke quickly and without taking his gaze from Rensair, Detan’s cheery
smile plastered firmly in place. But there was no hiding the fine
tension in the lines around his eyes, forced to crinkle to make a casual
observer think his smile spread naturally to them. And no matter how
quickly Detan spoke, Rensair’s soft frown told him he’d picked up the
gist of what Detan had said. Thratia gestured grandly, sarcastically
handing control of the room over to him.
   “And how did you get to be so chummy with ole Thratia?” he asked, but
Rensair just frowned in response. “I mean – how did you make friends
with Thratia?”
   “Ah, friends, yes.” He smiled, back on familiar footing. “She has worked
very hard to keep the Valathean menace from the Saldives.”
   Detan coughed politely into his sleeve to cover a choked-off laugh.“I
would have called her the Valathean menace, before she grew so boorish
that Valathea couldn’t even stomach her.”
   Ossar said something, fast and liquid, and though Detan couldn’t
understand the words the tone was clear enough – and the blush of
embarrassment on his daughter’s cheeks.
   “What’s the old man have to say, then?”
   Rensair grimaced.“He says you are impotent.”
   Thratia roared with laughter while some colorful heat painted Detan’s
own cheeks.
   “You mean… impudent?”
   “Yes, yes, that. What did I say?”
   Detan grimaced.“Never mind that. Your dear ole father-in-law isn’t
exactly wrong. On the impudent front, that is.” He shot Thratia a glare
and she wiped tears from her cheeks, snickering softly.
   “And for that, I apologize.” Detan shifted internal personas, moved from
the glib con man that had shielded him for so long back into the skin of
the lord, the child of privilege and politics. The man his aunt had
always wanted him to be. He’d buried that old skin deeper than he’d
thought, and it felt tight on him now. Constrictive in a way it never
had before.
   Just rusty, he told himself. Just need some time. He laced his fingers
together and canted his head at an angle meant to signal solemnity, and
watched the body language of the Saldivians shift around him to
comfortable attention. All save Iessa, at any rate. She was looking at
him hard, now. Like she’d seen his internal shift laid out bare at her
feet, and didn’t much like the implications.
   He cleared his throat and continued,“Please, tell me what happened when
Thratia came to your country.”
   “We are small,” Rensair began. “Little islands, you understand? Not big
like here, the Scorched, or like the bigger islands of Valathea. Just
little islands. We have no selium.” He pronounced it sa-lee-um, dragging
the word out as if it were delightfully unique. “But we have great
shoals of fish to feed us, and sugarcane and yams.” He flashed a little
smile. “Your food here, it is so bitter. But, I ramble. When Thratia
came on her airships, we knew not what to think. She introduced herself
as a commodore of a great empire, spreading across all of the known
world, and promised they came seeking only trade. A little speck of a
country, so far across the sea, was not worth the effort to conquer.”
   Detan had his doubts about Thratia’s intentions in that regard, but he
nodded understanding all the same and motioned for Rensair to continue.
   “She stayed a long time, brought people to help with the teaching of
Valathean.” His smile grew with pride. “I was the first to gain mastery.
To be con-ver-sant. Things were well, and we were trading our sweets for
your liquor and your grains, but then these people – they wear white
coats – came to visit us.”
   Detan’s face went cold, bloodless, his stomach sinking to the bottom of
his being.
   “You are all right?” Rensair asked.
   “Yes.” He cleared thickness from his throat and wiped clammy palms
against his knees. Though he could feel Thratia watching him, he didn’t
dare meet her eye. “Please, continue.”
   “They had learned that we had none of your selium. Our mountains have
been dead a long, long time. So they came to find out if we still had
sensitives. We had none, and they found this very curious so they…” He
leaned back, pressing a hand to his chest while he took a deep breath.
The man wasnear tears. Detan bit his tongue to keep from interrupting.
   “They told us they had a way of inducing sensitivity, and wouldn’t that
be great? We could have pilots then, like your people. Take a greater
role in worldwide trade. Maybe even find some selium deposits on our own
land, if we were very lucky. Many people volunteered, and they took all
of thosewho lived very close to the mountains.
   “They had no such method.” Rensair caught Detan’s gaze and held it,
testing to see if Detan realized the implications of what he meant.
Detan nodded, slowly, not trusting his voice. Not even trusting himself
to breathe without devolving into a stream of curses.
   “But they had tests, experiments.” Rensair’s voice caught on the last
word. He cleared his throat and soldiered on. “Many were hurt, many
driven mad, and the people with the white coats were not happy. They
couldn’t get anyone to become a sensitive. So they took more volunteers,
and more,and when the volunteers dried up they began just taking. They
kept it very quiet, for a long time, but families began to talk amongst
themselves. People spoke up.
   “My father-in-law, he went to Thratia, demanded she find out what was
going on. She was honest with us, even though she knew the horrors she’d
uncovered would mean an uprising. Our king is, and was, a very old man
used to peace. He did not know how to go about throwing out the
whitecoats, or even if he could. Thratia promised him she would get rid
of them, if he let her stay, and she did so. Her people, those working
directly under her, were disgusted by what they found their fellows
doing, and so they kicked them out.
   “Eventually, Thratia had to leave. She said she feared those
white-coated people were doing the same things elsewhere, and she needed
a stronger base from which to stage her fight. She left her army with us
and came here, to Aransa, to start again. We were not a very
militaristic people. We couldnot have supplied her with the manpower
she needed. You are very lucky, Lord Honding, that she comes to save
your city next.”
   Detan stared at these friendly, well-meaning people. Their smiles, some
cautious, some open, seemed very far away– phantom grins, all teeth and
lips floating in the air, mocking him with their friendliness.
   Sweat dripped across his brow, soaked through the knees of his trousers
from the palms of his hands. He’d begun to shake, just slightly, a
subtle all-over tremble that threatened to make his teeth clack. Every
word of Rensair’s story fell like lead, like iron, into his mind.
Threatened to batter down old barriers he’d only recently begun to peek
hesitantly behind.
   Thratia had refused to relinquish control of the Saldive Isles.
   Everyone in Valathea, in the Scorched, knew that story. A story of a
commodore gone too thirsty for power, her greed and ruthlessness
outmatched by anyone else her rank. The very thing, the very power-move,
that had seen her exiled from the empire she’d been born and bred to
serve.
   Thratia had refused to relinquish control of the Saldive Islesto the
whitecoats.
   And there was nothing, nothing at all, in the tone or the faces of the
Saldivians watching him now that led him to believe their story was
anything else than the truth as they knew it.
   “Excuse me,” Detan rasped. “I need air.”
   Worried expressions dogged him. Expressions of concern from Rensair and
Iessa blended with the slow, languorous words of Ossar as he pushed to
his feet, swayed a moment, then set his gaze on the open doorway and
locked it there. His ears buzzed. White encroached upon the corners of
his vision.
   He staggered to the hall, vaguely aware that he pushed past Thratia, and
planted one hand hard against the stone, duck his head down, doubling
over so that the blood would rush back into his head again.
   However much time had passed, he had no idea, but when the storm of
flies in his skull subsided and his vision cleared, Thratia was there,
standing beside him, her face as carefully neutral as always.
   He straightened, fancy new clothes sticking to him all over from sweat.
She seemed smaller to him now, delicate yet fierce in a way he’d never
noticed before. She was all persona, he realized with a sinking gut.
Just as he put on his mask of bravado or seriousness, she was forever
shrouded with how she wanted the world to see her: fearless, ruthless, a
creature of power and strength.
   And she was those things, was them so fully that he’d never been able to
see where the rough edges lay. Where the mask ended and the real woman
began.
   Because she was all those things, and more. And that was the real terror
of her.
   “What do you want from me?” he demanded through the rasp in his throat.
“Why am I here?”
   “Come. It’s time we talked.”
   She turned and walked up the hallway, not for a moment doubting he would
follow. And skies help him, he did. Dogged her heels like a puppy in
desperate search of a bone.
   Chapter Seventeen
   The skeleton of the Ashfall Lounge was a burnt out warehouse on the
outskirts of the city; the flesh was something else all together. Its
performers had swathed the building in garishly painted linens, hiding
the worst of the damage with sheets of fabric painted with the names of
the performers, and the cost for entry. They’d crowded the soot-stained
eaves with paper lanterns, covered with squiggles and dots to throw
patterns against the cloth and wood.
   Patrons milled about the exterior, talking to be heard over the soft
threads of music seeping through the ramshackle building. Laughter and
song and the vapor of alcohol mingled on the breeze, tinged with
something else. Something Ripka couldn’t quite place.
   “They’re so happy,” Honey murmured.
   The shock of that statement stopped her walking. That was it, that was
all there was. These people were happy, out enjoying the night and the
company of others despite everything. Despite knowing their city was
doomed to fight for its freedom, despite knowing full well that the
armies of Thratia were only days away– perhaps even here already, if
rumors of a convoy spotted to the west could be believed.
   Unlike Aransa, these people hadn’t suffered weeks brewing in tension.
Hadn’t strained under the fear of a doppel in their streets, of their
warden murdered and who knew how many officials lined up next on that
shadowy boogeyman’s chopping block. The people of Hond Steading were
used to coming up on top. Ripka wasn’t even sure that they knew what it
was to fear for a nation, for a people.
   It should have brought her joy, to see so many of them without care.
Instead, her stomach clenched. A people easy with themselves, mollified
and convinced of their invincibility, were difficult to mobilize.
Thratia would arrive to find a city full of fat goats, ready for the
slaughter.
   “Come on.” Ripka urged herself forward. “Let’s go find Latia and get
some seats.”
   Progress through the crowd was slow, halting. People did not endeavor to
block her path so much as be completely indifferent to the fact that
anyone of their number might have a sense of direction, of urgency.
Ripka’s training ticked away, marking certain groups as more likely to
cause trouble than others, rankling at the sight of knots of people
blocking exits. Worse yet, vendors clustered in triangles around every
door, hawking beer and wine and portable foodstuffs. Didn’t they see
that this place had already burned down once? Fire was a real hazard on
the Scorched, if they kept the doorways clogged, then–
   “Here.” Honey’s short fingers gripped Ripka’s shoulder, stopping her
mid-prowl of the perimeter. She pressed a lopsided clay mug of something
dark and grainy and frothing into Ripka’s hand. “You need to relax.”
   Ripka took a long sniff. The sweet aroma of fermented grains startled
her– this was no backwater swill – and the smooth warmth of it going
down eased knots she hadn’t realized she’d been bunching in her
shoulders.
   “Thanks.” She took a longer pull as Honey bought a beer for herself.
   Someone banged a spoon against a tin cup and the collective heads of
those gathered lifted to the noise, everyone turning to mill into the
husk of a lounge. Ripka followed, hesitant, and every time she wondered
about the structural integrity of the building she took a deeper drink
of her beer. By the time they were gathered in the lobby, her cup was
half empty.
   “There you are!”
   Ripka turned just in time to see Latia swoop down upon them. She’d piled
up her hair in a mass of a bun, shoved a paintbrush through it to keep
it in place, and donned the biggest, sparkliest set of hammered-copper
earrings Ripka’d ever seen. A brief impression of the woman was all
Ripka could gather before she was having her cheeks kissed in a dizzying
rush, then Latia grabbed her by the shoulders and held her at arm’s
length, nodding to herself.
   “This shade of reddoes become you.”
   Honey grinned a bit over Latia’s shoulder and Ripka shot her a sour
look. “Honey decided I needed an update.”
   “A woman of few words, and excellent taste. I love it!”
   Latia gathered Ripka’s shoulders under one arm, Honey’s under the other,
and steered them firmly through the crowd toward a scattering of wood
pallet tables that filled the floor before a burlap-curtained stage. She
claimed a table toward the middle of the room and ushered both Ripka and
Honey into chairs. One look at their drinks, and Latia clucked her
tongue.
   “For you, Ripka darling, that brew is just fine, but Honey! My dear,
that just won’tdo for that poor throat of yours. You!” She flagged
down a harried-looking serving boy and thrust a finger at Honey’s cup.
“Get this poor dear a dark tea with whisky and honey, warmed up, now,
and be quick. The dear girl isinjured, for skies’ sake.”
   Latia dropped copper grains into the boy’s outstretched hand and he
raced off. “There!” She collapsed into her seat in a puff of
stone-smoothed linens and dust.
   “Where is Dranik?” Ripka asked when Latia paused to take a breath.
   “Oh,him.” Her face screwed up as if she’d tasted something sour. “Off
on one of his little missions of truth and right-thinking, no doubt.
Probably haranguing some poor passers-by in the market about the glory
of a representative government.” She sighed heavily. “He is such an
earnest, yet tedious young soul.”
   “Is he not your elder brother?”
   “Pah. Age is in here, my darling.” She tapped her temple with one
finger, a bit of mustard-yellow paint dried on its tip. “And as such he
isdecidedly my younger fool of a brother. Poor dear. Mama poured a
bunch of nonsense into his head, he hardly stood a chance.”
   Ripka pressed her lips shut to keep from inquiring, fearing that if she
seemed too eager to learn about Dranik’s politics she might stir
suspicion. Latia was Dranik’s gatekeeper. If Ripka could ingratiate
herself with the woman, then maybe she’d let her get a closer look at
what was really going on.
   She was forming a tree of questions in her mind to peel away the truth
when the waiter arrived and plunked Honey’s new drink down. Before Ripka
could find a proper opening question, the candelabras lining the walls
were snuffed and all conversation fell to a soft murmur. While each
table had its own guttering candle, the stage glowed with oil lamps, a
brighter light than any of the candles could give.
   The stage glowed like a stoked ember. Sorrowful notes from a violin
moaned from behind the curtain, their hollow tone carving out a matching
emptiness in Ripka’s belly. She leaned forward, and noticed Honey doing
likewise. Honey’s eyes were rapt, glowing in the unctuous light from the
lamps, her golden curls all aflame on the top of her head. Her bee-sting
full lips moved, slowly, mouthing the tones of the violin.
   Honey had seemed focused but bored when she danced death among the
rioting prisoners of the Remnant. Now she was enraptured. Ripka
swallowed a long sip of her drink, trying to tell herself her fingers
trembled because she was overtired.
   A woman’s silhouette stepped behind the thin curtain. She stood in
profile, one arm extended to the sky, the other crooked at her back.
She’d curled and teased her hair so much it obscured the shape of her
face, of her shoulders. Just the slim curve of lips and nose were
visible beyond the ringlets. Ripka leaned forward, trying to discern
some telling feature, and the lips moved. The woman sang.
   The sound was low, haunting. Shivers coursed up Ripka’s spine, trailing
goosebumps across her entire body. Beside her, Honey mouthed the words,
the barest whisper slipping past her lips. Neither the language nor the
tune was familiar to Ripka, but the glaze over Honey’s eyes was enough
to tell her the woman knew every word.
   She nearly jumped out of her skin as a shadow fell over her shoulder,
the presence of a man behind her, body warmed with exertion, shocking
her out of her reverie.
   “What are you doing?” Latia whispered, a low hiss.
   Ripka forced herself to wrench her gaze away from the figure on the
stage and turn in her seat. She was a little jealous to see Honey ignore
the interruption, so intent was she on the performance. Ripka went cold.
   Dranik hunched behind her, alongside his sister, his hair stiff with
sweat and his forehead gleaming. Even in the near-dark of the
candlelight the angry bruise marring his cheek and jaw stood out.
   “You have to hide me,” he whispered, voice strained with urgency.
   “I’d like to drop you down a well,” Latia snapped, earning a sharp hush
from the table next to them. Dranik’s gaze flitted around, uneasy. Ripka
knew that pattern of looking – he was checking to see if he’d been
followed.
   “Let’s talk outside,” Ripka whispered. If Dranik was going to interrupt
the performance for her, she’d be damned if she was going to be left out
of any juicy information.
   Dranik paled a little.“Not out front.”
   Ripka bit back sarcasm and nodded. Luckily for them all she’d made a
habit of checking every room she entered for entrances and exits while
in the watch. “There’s a door on the back end of the bar, a service
entrance that dumps to the side of the building. We can loop around to
the back from there.”
   Nods all around. These two clearly weren’t used to handling themselves
in any flavor of real crises, they’d handed the tiller of the situation
over to her without a second thought. Ripka stood, careful not to scrape
her chair, and soft-footed her way toward the door, drawing a few
murmurs of annoyance from the other patrons. She’d expected Honey to
stay behind, but the woman followed them, head tipped toward the stage
no matter which direction they turned.
   The bartender threw her a sour look as she grabbed a nearly spent candle
from the edge of the bar, but said nothing. The door was unlocked and
didn’t so much as creak as she swung it open into the night. Though the
place was half-burnt, someone had obviously put some thought into oiling
the hinges.
   She shivered in the night air, missing her watcher coat, and checked
down both ends of the alley before ushering their little group out. The
moment the door shut, Latia jabbed her brother in the chest with one
finger.
   “Just what in the pits are you doing?”
   He shifted his weight side to side, glancing down the lane toward the
front of the building. Ripka decided to save him.
   “Let’s talk around back.”
   Latia rolled her eyes and flounced her skirts, but followed Ripka all
the same. A packed-dirt patio reached from the back of the performance
hall to a haphazard stone fence stacked high as Ripka’s shoulders. The
sight of it made her uneasy – such structures were known to collapse in
Aransa – so she sidled a little closer to the building. A door stood in
the middle of the back wall, a few chords of music seeping out, and
piles of cloth and broken or half-finished stage props dotted the area.
Dranik made a complete survey of their environs before he dared to
speak.
   “We have to get away from here, Latia. They’ll find me any moment – you
must hide me!”
   “Hush.” Latia crossed her arms and stared down her long nose at him.
“It’s bad enough you disturbed the performance, don’t yell so that the
whole theater can hear you from out here, too.”
   “Latia,” Ripka said, watching yellow bile tinge Dranik’s cheeks. “He’s
serious, I think. What happened, Dranik?”
   “Later,” he hissed, though this time he kept his voice down. “They
don’t know my name. If we go to your studio–”
   “I am in the middle of a piece!”
   “Shhh,” Honey murmured.
   They all stopped cold, every last gaze swiveling to the golden-haired
woman. Her head was no longer tilted toward the building. She’d turned
slightly, angling her body the way they’d come, head cocked as if
listening. Ripka heard thudding, thought it was the sound of her heart,
but it was too disjointed. And growing louder.
   “Company,” Ripka whispered, and slid into a ready crouch.
   Dranik moaned and slunk back, grabbing his sister’s sleeve to yank her
towards a deadfall in the fence. She swore and stumbled, painted sandals
twisting in the dust.
   Precision echoed in those footsteps, a practiced pattern that thundered
through Ripka’s memory. Long shadows appeared at the end of the alley,
the hint of firm-lined coats evident about the pursuers’ collars. She
did not need to see them to know those coats were blue.
   Shit. The shadows stretched, drawing closer, and her breath came harsh
between her lips. Honey’s fingers grazed her arm, and the simple touch
returned her to herself. She wouldn’t have to fight them. She just
needed to get Dranik and Latia out of here. Preferably without being
recognized.
   “Go,” she ordered, jerking her chin toward the break in the wall. Latia
was first through, shoved by her brother, Honey tight on their heels.
Ripka hesitated only a breath. She threw the candle.
   Her aim was true. The sputtering stub of wax crashed into a pile of
stage debris. She pivoted and sprinted toward the gap in the wall. Honey
gripped her wrists, helping her over a low mound of rubble, as the first
shouts filled the patio area.
   Shouts, followed by a gut-churningwhoosh. Ripka winced at the sound
of the flames, the shouts of pursuit shifting to shouts of alarm.
Watcher coats were made to smother fire, she told herself. They’d be all
right. The patrons in the theater wouldn’t even notice.
   Latia and Dranik were halfway down the road, Latia limping but pumping
her arms as if her life depended on it. They cut a straight path down
the center of the road. Ripka bit her lips and shared a look with Honey,
who shrugged. Some people were just shit at situational awareness.
   Honey at her side, Ripka jogged up to the siblings.“We need to get off
the main road.”
   Dranik’s eyes bulged. “Right. I, uh–”
   “This way,” Latia said. She tore off toward a thin side street, the
windows facing the road shuttered. Honey scampered forward and slipped
her arm around Latia’s shoulders, supporting her to ease her limping,
and Dranik trotted after.
   A sharp whistle pierced the night. Ripka winced. She knew that sound.
Though most of the watchers must have stayed behind to deal with the
fire, they’d been tagged by a scout. No scout worth their salt would let
a group of fugitives out of their sight before backup arrived to help.
   “Go on,” Ripka ordered. “I’ll lose the scout.”
   Honey threw a concerned glance over her shoulder, brows pinched
together, and Ripka gave her a little nod. It was all right. She’d meet
them at the studio, later. A brilliant smile flashed across Honey’s face
and then she was gone, ushering the siblings down the road.
   Ripka slowed her jog, taking in her surroundings. The streets were dark.
Those who ran the theater must have chosen this district for its lack of
population. Hond Steading’s roads sprawled in all directions, the
twisting maze of a neighborhood had sprung into life spontaneously,
without any pre-planning. She could use that.
   She toed the ground, feeling the packed earth, the slick smoothness of
the fine layer of dust that covered everything in the Scorched. She’d
missed that dust while she’d been on the Remnant. It had always served
to remind her how tenuous her footing truly was at any given time.
   The whistle sounded again. She ducked down an alley, pressed her back
against the still-warm mudbrick, evened out her breathing, and waited.
   Chapter Eighteen
   Pelkaia entered the house of her enemy.
   By some trick of fate and misfortune of trust she was welcome here,
welcome in the austere halls of the Honding family palace. Tibal had
vouched for her, or perhaps Ripka, speaking of her exploits of the past
and her goals for the deviants of the future. Or– and this gave her a
little frisson of amusement to consider – Detan himself had, perhaps,
written to his aunt and given Pelkaia praise.
   The reasons didn’t matter. They were all lies, anyway. What mattered was
that, despite how she had come by the freedom, Pelkaia mounted the steps
to the Honding palace and entered its doors a free woman, without
suspicion.
   She hadn’t even bothered putting on a Valathean-bred face. She wore her
own countenance, relishing the feel of the sere air on sand-dune smooth
cheeks she’d been pressed to keep hidden for the vast majority of her
adult life. The Hondings, and the citizenry of their city, did not fear
her heritage. Though, truth be told, she drew a few questioning glances.
   No, the people of Hond Steading had forgotten their past, and hers.
Forgotten it was their arrival, the lure in their blood toward the
firemounts of this cursed city, that had brought Valathea’s hungry might
down upon the Scorched continent. That had rolled her people back into
barren lands, and mingled their bloods until an entirely new people
sprang up on the intersection of Valathea and Catari.
   The people of the Scorched.
   Despite her distaste for their origins, Pelkaia could not bring herself
to loathe them as she should. She had better enemies to fan her hatred
with.
   She spotted a likely black-jacketed guard lingering near the doorway and
approached, all easy smiles and open body language. It’d taken her a
while to reclaim an easy, non-threatening posture after she’d given up
masquerading with Ripka’s stiff formality, but once she had it back it
came easily to her, though she could not articulate why that was.
Perhaps some echo from her childhood, or from her first time as a
mother. From a time before her world had begun to be shredded, slowly,
to bloodied pieces.
   Whatever the reason, her easy stroll put the guard at ease, receptive to
her request. Detan’s manipulation tactics must be rubbing off. But no,
that wasn’t fair. She’d been a serpent in a ball gown long before Detan
Honding had ever had the misfortune of stumbling into her life.
   “Good morning,” she said to the guard and bobbed her head politely.
“Could you point me toward Nouli Bern’s quarters? This place is so
large, I’ve already forgotten the way.”
   The guard hesitated, the slightest flicker of indecision. Nouli’s
presence here was protected, as Pelkaia well knew. Not even the citizens
of the city knew their leading family’s palace harbored the man who’d
help engineer Valathea’s greatest weapons of war. But Pelkaia was a
known entity to the guards: accepted, safe. And she knew the man’s name
–simply knowing that he was here at all was key enough to open that
door.
   The guard checked to be sure her post was covered by fellow eyes, then
inclined her head in practiced solicitude. Pelkaia had to hand it to old
Dame Honding, she had her people trained to within an inch of their
lives.
   “This way please, miss.”
   Pelkaia threw the remaining guard a friendly smile and trailed after her
mark, making sure not to look too eager nor too disinterested. She
marked the path, letting the guard see as she murmured assurances to
herself that this was the right route after all. It didn’t matter that
she’d never seen these particular halls before; she needed the guard to
believe this was little more than a refresher.
   “Here you are, miss.” The guard paused in front of a door toward the end
of a lower level, set well away from the bulk of the residences, so far
as Pelkaia could tell, in a wing that offered a low, sloped roof over
what had to be Nouli’s rooms. No doubt he’d been sequestered here, away
fromthe bustle of the palace’s everyday happenings, to both keep him
out of sight, and his experiments from affecting anyone should they go
awry.
   Pelkaia half-stepped toward the door, only to be met with an upraised
palm from the guard.“You must enter without knocking – the door is
always unlocked – and shut it carefully behind you. Stand with your back
to the door, beside the candelabra, and wait for Nouli to acknowledge
you. Do not speak to him, or startle him in any way.”
   Pelkaia flashed a smile.“Thank you, dear, but I’m familiar with Master
Bern’s peculiarities.”
   The guard shrugged.“Rules are rules, miss. Dame’s orders that everyone
who approaches this door be reminded of them. Got her nethers in a twist
over the man’s experiments, if you ask me. Worried he’ll knock the whole
place down if he so much as sees a sandrat.”
   “The Dame has reason for her caution, I’m sure.”
   The guard twitched at her weapons belt, letting the heavy weight of her
tools reassure her.“Everyone has an extra helping of caution, these
days. Holler if you need anything, miss. But not too loud.”
   Pelkaia ran her fingers across her lips as if stitching them shut, and
the guard tipped her helmet before hurrying off back to her post. She
let the guard’s steps fade into the distance before she peeled the door
open. The hinges had been well-oiled, it glided wide with only the
tiniest of efforts.
   The sight made her breath catch. Master Bern, it seemed, had been given
every possible item he could ever need, and then some. She slipped
within the cavernous room and shut the door, lingering in the position
indicated, while she let her eyes adjust to the oily light.
   More than the accouterments of a chemist or engineer dotted the huge
room. This was a space gone over to experimentation. Aside from the
litter of instruments and notebooks across all the tables, Nouli had
also been granted a small greenhouse for plant life. Though the plants
were clustered in a glass-lined corner far from where Pelkaia waited,
she recognized some of those glossy, leafy fronds, and took heart.
   Nouli, in his genius, had not neglected the study of apothiks. Ripka had
intimated as much when she brought him aboard Pelkaia’s ship. He’d
trembled in those first few days, claiming need of rest but clearly
needing something more. Pelkaia had suspected drug abuse of some kind.
She’d never dreamed he had knowledge of some of her old Catari remedies,
too. Their conversation had yet to begin, and already she was brimming
with confidence.
   Paper on paper rustled somewhere in the back of the work room, the
subtle clinking of glass. Pelkaia stood stock still alongside the
candelabra, waiting patiently for the master to sense her presence.
She’d heard Ripka’s story of the conflagration he’d kicked off in his
workshop back on the Remnant, and did not wish to see a live
demonstration.
   She hadn’t long to wait. Nouli shuffled forward, favoring his left leg
with a hardwood cane, his thick glasses sunk low on a nose long-dented
by the nose grips. He squinted at Pelkaia, taking in her purebred Catari
countenance, and nodded to himself.
   “Pelkaia Teria, isn’t it? The captain of my rescue ship. What can I do
for you, Captain?”
   “I am that.” She darted a look around the room. Though it was huge, and
doubtless branched into an opulent set of sleeping quarters, Pelkaia was
no fool to the workings of such things. Nouli Bern did not leave the
Honding palace. Ever. “Though I wonder how successful I was in my
rescue.”
   He shuffled over to sit on a stool very near her and leaned his cane
against his knee.“Not a subtle woman, are you?”
   She shrugged.“The older I get, the thinner my patience for delicacy of
speech.”
   “A dangerous mood, that one. Careful wording is an art to be mastered,
not a relic to be discarded when one feels they’ve outgrown it.” He eyed
her, slowly and carefully, as she had expected. “Though that is
something you will learn in time. You are not nearly old enough to be so
cynical ofpoliteness.”
   And just like that, he’d sidled so easily into her trap. It was almost a
pity, really. She missed a good head to fence with – a manipulator as
keen on the craft as she was – but this would do. She hadn’t expected
otherwise, truly. Nouli was a genius in a practical way. He expected
people to be as straightforwardas his equations were.
   “You flatter me, Master Bern. But you do forget – I am Catari, and of a
particular line. Or had you not heard the rumors?”
   “Rumors?” He leaned forward, fingers curled tight over the knob of his
cane to steady himself.
   “That the mixed-bloods of the Scorched live just as long, if not longer,
than the pure of Valathea, despite the harsher climate. And, it must be
said, put off the more aesthetic ravages of age quite longer.”
   “Tosh.” He slumped back and waved a dismissive hand. “I’ve heard the
rumors, everyone likes a good fairytale, but I’m of mixed blood myself,
my dear, and as you can see such mingling has not been so kind to me as
the stories would suggest.”
   A bitter undercurrent caught her attention and swept it away. Anger that
had nothing at all to do with the fading of his looks, nor his health,
lay like a frond of spines beneath his words. It was no grand leap to
puzzle out what would make a man like Nouli so deeply resentful.
   “It’s a subtle effect in the mixed, diluted as it is, and distributed
amongst people who do not live nor eat the way the Catari have.”
   He snorted.“Clean living and thick blood, those are your suggestions? I
could have told any fool the same, it is the thing most prescribed by
all backwater apothiks. Good knowledge, yes, but hardly revolutionary.”
   “Incomplete knowledge,” Pelkaia said, and saw his eyes narrow with
interest. “Due to… poor relations between Valatheas and Catari early on,
my people failed to share certain insights with their new neighbors.
Certain… recipes.”
   From within her tunic pocket she produced a small vial of elixir. It was
not enough to perform miracles, for it was diluted and extracted from
plants not grown in the traditional ways, but it was enough to keep
Pelkaia’s mind quick. Or, at the very least, to restore it from abject
sluggishness.
   Nouli was not a slow man, despite whatever age had done to him. He
licked his lips, eyeing the little thumb-thick cylinder of stoppered
glass.“And that is what, exactly? Some potion of youth? If you’ve come
to peddle me fables, Captain, I’d ask you to save the interruption for
dinner tonight, when I won’t be postponing important work for
entertainment’s sake.”
   “Your skepticism is welcome. There is no magic in this vial, no one
remedy to heal all the ills of time. It is, if anything, a stopgap, a
momentary measure of restoration. But it does work, Master Bern, I can
promise you that. It may be no miracle, but it can make your thoughts
move easier, for awhile. Something about removing old oil from the
brain matter – the true function has been lost to time and war. But I
recall the making of it, all the same.”
   He scowled.“You expect me to what, exactly? Take your word and drink
down this concoction? It could be poison, for all I know. Or some bitter
tea that will only grant me indigestion.”
   “I expect you to do nothing blindly, Master. I expect you to draw off
samples, set it beneath your magnification glasses and probe around in
its making. Perhaps even feed it to a sandrat to judge the results. What
you do to assure yourself doesn’t matter to me. Only know that you must
have halfthis amount remaining, when you finally decide to drink it,
for it to have any effect at all.”
   She tossed it to him, end over end in a gleaming arc, and he fumbled
forward, knocking his cane aside in his haste to save the thin glass
from dashing against the hard floor.“You Catari have kept your secrets
close, always. Why now? Why give this to me now, if it is indeed what
you say it is?”
   Such a clever man. Perhaps he was not so blind to her manipulations as
she had expected. She caught herself smiling. A lively mark in Nouli was
going to make this game much more entertaining.“If I told you I was
dying, would you believe me?”
   His lashes fluttered as he blinked in shock.“I would have no reason not
to, but you seem in good health, why do you…?” He trailed off, eyeing
the vial in his hand thoughtfully. She could tell from the furrow on his
brow she did not need to explain to him why she appeared in good health
when she was, in fact, dissolving from the inside out.
   “I wish for something of my people to live on, once I am gone.”
   He picked his gaze off the vial and stared at her.“Your people
continue, out in the desert. They will not die with you, my dear.”
   “No, but knowledge is a tenuous thing. Better to store it in as many
safe places as possible, don’t you think?”
   He frowned.“But that is not all.”
   “No, no, of course not. Someday – someday soon – I may require a favor
of you in return.”
   She watched the balance of scales shift in his mind, watched the wary
guardedness seep back into his expression and posture. Here was not a
man used to wagering his future against his present. Or, perhaps, a man
who had done that very thing one too many times and found the payoff
wanting.
   “What favor?”
   “I cannot be certain yet, but nothing that would risk your position.”
   His eyes narrowed, his fingers closed tight around the vial, his arm
drifted backward, preparing to throw it. She held up her hands, palms
out, put on that easy smile she’d been practicing and said, “Nothing
untoward. I swear it. But take some time to consider – the vial is my
gift to you, regardless of your choice. When you’re satisfied with your
research, send for me, and I will bring you something new to puzzle
over.”
   “I will not–” he began, but she had already slipped out the door,
shutting its well-oiled hinges behind her. She paused there, breathing
softly, back pressed against the door as she strained the very edge of
her hearing. Waiting, Waiting.
   A shuffle of feet, the scrape of a stool, the click of the cane.
   But no breaking of glass, no tinkle of precious elixir bleeding out onto
the floor.
   He’d taken her bait. She had now only to wait for the payoff.
   Her smile was an easy, natural thing, as she strolled out of the Honding
palace.
   Chapter Nineteen
   Thratia led Detan to her bedroom, and his stomach was tied too tightly
to make any smart remarks on the fact. Night had well and truly come to
Aransa, and a small part of him was glad he could no longer see the city
he’d abandoned. While the curtains were pulled back to let in the moon
and starlight, their natural shine was not enough to dispel the shadows
lurking in the corners of the room which was Thratia’s sanctum. The
whole place, the whole night, made his skin crawl.
   He hadn’t been sure what he’d expected, but he had an unsettling
suspicion that even ascetic hermits holed up in caves in the badlands
enjoyed more luxury than Thratia Ganal.
   She moved to the window, put her back against its frame, and watched him
while he took in her private space. A low bed, just wide and long enough
to hold her, huddled against the far wall, its foot pointed toward the
singular window she occupied now. Shelves filled the other wall,
bursting with rolled maps, books, and hand-written folios. A desk, a
chair, a wardrobe. Nothing else. Not even a rug on the hard, stone,
floor.
   “Are you a prisoner?” he asked, just to shake that low-lidded, intense
look off her face.
   “Only of myself.”
   “Shouldn’t you have some sort of map on the wall, of all the lands
you’ve left to conquer? Or, I don’t know, a tapestry of babies being
chucked into a bonfire. Is there a special agency that handles interior
decorating for mad bastards?”
   A ghost of a smile, seen only in the brief gleam of her teeth.“I have
all I need, and it is private.”
   He swallowed, recalling the heavy lock she’d opened to let them in. He
was quite certain no cleaning crew ever set foot in this room, and yet,
even with the surroundings bled of color in the pale light, he could not
find a speck of dust or filth. Her fastidiousness irritated him almost
as much as her conquest. Almost.
   “I mean, there’s not even a set of shackles. Or the ears of your
enemies.”
   “Honding. You’re rambling.”
   “Haven’t you noticed yet that’swhat I do?” The anger in his own voice
surprised him. His hands had coiled to fists at his side, though he
hardly knew how to use them. Some niggling in the back of his brain told
him he was missing something, a sensation like deep hunger or thirst,
ramping his irritation as surely as if he’d gone without food for a day.
But he’d eaten, and… And skipped his daily meeting with Aella. Forgone
the injection of selium and diviner blood that Callia had once been
convinced would leash him to her, help him refine his power.
   He shivered. The room was cold, but sweat sheeted between his shoulder
blades.
   He could push her. Standing with that smug little smirk on her face,
back pressed up against the open window, she’d never see it coming. Her
arms were crossed. It’d take her too long to mount a defense, to dodge
his advance. The room was small. Four steps. Four steps and she could be
plummeting to the dark.
   And take her answers with her.
   Detan breathed deep, smoothed his hair with both hands, and forced his
shoulders to unbunch, letting his whole body slouch down into the
languid posture he used to play the disaffected dilettante.
   “Is this where you suck my blood, then?”
   She snorted, a brief little laugh.“Don’t be stupid. I have lost count
of the opportunities I’ve had to kill you. I suspect you even know why
I’ve brought you here, though you’re too much the coward to face it.”
   “You want me here, under your thumb, for the same cursed reason everyone
else does. Why the whitecoats, why my own aunt, hounds my heels. Because
I have a skill you want, a talent unique enough it cannot be replicated,
and you want to make use of it. Chain me to your ships and turn me into
a machine of war.
   “But that’s not why I bent knee to Aella, and through her to you.
Whatever you want me for, whatever blasted damage you think I can craft
on your behalf – I won’t. Do you understand me? I will not be turned
against innocents. I brave Aella’slessons to gain control. To be less
of a threat. I will not be your weapon.”
   He stepped forward, heart thudding in his ears, anger making his cheeks
and chest hot. At the vaguest edge of his senses he realized there was
no selium nearby, nothing at all for him to channel his anger into
should the desire arise. Just Thratia’s small, sharp face, half scarred
by the damage he’d wrought, smiling up at him. Amused.
   “Is that what you think?” she asked.
   He’d moved close enough so that he stood over her, her head tilted up to
meet his gaze, her breath a warm gust against his throat. He stepped
back, unclenched his fists. “You may have the Saldivians fooled, but
I’ve seen inside you, Thratia Ganal. I stared into those eyes of yours
while you slit Bel Grandon’s throat just to make a point, and a poor one
at that.”
   The smirk vanished, and while her hard stare made his skin crawl he took
small satisfaction in wiping any pleasure off her face.“You are, quite
possibly, the most obdurate person I have ever met.”
   “Thank you.”
   “Detan,” she said, and the sound of his first name from her lips sent
uneasy ripples through him. “Listen very carefully.” She peeled herself
from the window frame and stepped forward, tightening the distance
between them so that he could feel the heat of her. She cocked her head,
put her lips by his ear, never touching – not even allowing her breath
to gust – as she whispered. “I don’t need you in order to crush Hond
Steading.”
   He resisted an urge to reel back from her nearness. She was a rock-viper
of a woman. Sudden movements triggered sudden strikes.
   “Yes. You do.”
   She threw her head back and laughed, hands folded over her stomach. The
very sound of it drove pins and needles into Detan’s skin.
   “Oh, my Lord Honding. You are but one man. An exceptional man, in some
ways, but not at all instrumental. Unless you choose to make it easier
for all involved.”
   He felt himself drawn up on the edge of a precipice, wary and uncertain.
Thratia was dangling what she wanted from him like bait on a string,
teasing him forward into asking, demanding, just what exactly she
wanted.
   Whatever it was, he would pretend to give it to her. Pretend to bend his
knee, as he had to Aella, just so that he could be closer to the inner
workings of her machine. Whatever she wanted from him, he would pervert
it.
   First, he needed to master himself. To calm his revulsion from the
Saldivians’ story and see her as she was, as she always had been: a
puppet master, hungry for power. Even if he believed her reasons for
taking the Saldive Isles, for taking Aransa, he was convinced they were
only set-dressing. A flimsy framework to prop up her own hunger.
   She wanted him to ask what she wanted of him, what she’d planned for
him. And while he knew full well he’d have to give it to her – if only
briefly – he’d be spit-roasted before he made it easy on her. “If the
whitecoats are such a scourge to the well-being of the empire, then why
did you not go to your empress? Don’t tell me you didn’t have the
access, nor the will to make her listen. Your family’s as old as mine.”
   The quick breath she took told him all he needed to know– he’d pushed
her off balance. “My empress is dead.”
   He would have laughed in her face, if her voice weren’t so obviously
shot through with the brittle edge of real grief. “I would have heard.
Everyone would have heard.”
   “Spare me your false naivete. Shortly after the whitecoats arrived in
the Saldives, personal correspondence from the empress to me ceased, and
her son began to answer in her stead. Such a stupid, pliable boy. I knew
his handwriting, though he signed her name, and I knew the strings
pulling his hand. I returned to Valathea at once, while my garrison
stayed behind in the Saldives. I was denied all access to her, and
Ranalae…” She sucked air through her teeth. “Ranalae had her claws in
the young prince’s shoulder. The empress is dead, and Ranalae Lasson
pulls the prince’s strings. Ifyou believe me ruthless, Honding, you
have only to meet Ranalae to then think me a lamb. She desires the
puzzle of sel-sensitivity solved, in whole. She will not stop until
she’s acquired it, no matter the imperial legacy she tears apart in the
process.”
   He’d gone cold, the only sound in his head the steady thwump-thwump of
his heartbeat. Thratia cocked her head, sensing his unease, but he
ignored her regard. He licked his lips, ignored long-buried images
surfacing through the many vaults of his memory. Ranalae Lasson. There
was a name he’d buried, a woman he’d erased from his own mind – had
thought only of in terms of her long, white coat. Director of the Bone
Tower. Founder of the whitecoats. The woman whose scalpel had danced
across his skin long before he’d ever fallen into the clutches of Callia
and Aella his last time in Aransa.
   That name. That horrible, horrible, name.
   “We’ve met,” was all he could manage to say.
   Her gaze flicked to his arms, to his chest. She knew what lurked there,
though she’d never acknowledged it outright. Had to know, to know where
to look. No doubt Aella sent her back a detailed description of all the
torturous injuries he had once endured, perhaps she’d drawn a cartoonish
little map of his scars for her mistress.
   “And did she find what she was looking for in you?”
   “I don’t know,” he grated. “I escaped the night I heard her say the wordvivisection.”
   Thratia winced. He was sure of it. She was a master at controlling her
expression, her body language, but he’d caught her there – struck her
hard. The subtle ripple at the corners of her eyes, the pressing of her
lips. That was real. That was horror. A crack in her iron-fast facade.
   He shoved a wedge in that crack, and pushed.“But you knew that. Maybe
not about me, not specifically, but you knew what she was capable of by
the time you came to Aransa. You kicked her agents out of the Saldives,
kept those islands all to yourself while you came here to set up a base
of power. And what did you do, Thratia? What did you fucking do?”
   He couldn’t help it now. She knew. She’d always known. And that
realization was acid in his chest. “You sold them to her. You thought to
yourself:Hmm, I need some weapons. Some nice shiny swords. You know
how I can get them? Trading deviants, trading human-fucking-beings, to
Ranalae Lasson to carve up for jollies. To the very woman you claim you
want to stop. Pitsfuckitall, Thratia, you were going to sell her
Pelkaia, going to sell herme, just to get a few crates of weapons in
your bloody hands. What good is that? What’s the fucking point?”
   She’d gone still, her slim frame so very solid he half expected her to
radiate cold as if she’d been frozen through. After a long pause,
wherein the only sound was the panting of his own breath, she licked her
lips. “A few, to save many. That was my trade. My bloody bargain.”
   His wrist was in her hand, her grip coiled so tight his skin bulged
between her fingers. He stared, open-mouthed, at his upraised hand, his
flat palm. He’d been going to slap her. Hadn’t even thought about it.
Hadn’t even realized it.
   And then, the sudden realization: he could have reached for selium.
Would have, months ago, but with the sharpening of his anger that sense
had closed down, a safety valve switched shut. Tibs would be proud. He
almost giggled.
   “I lost only two,” she said.
   “What the fuck does that mean?”
   “Two went to the Bone Tower. The rest were still on Callia’s barge.”
   It was rather hard to think through the thundering of the rage in his
ears, but he got there, eventually. Recalled what little Aella had told
him about her return to Aransa, her whitecoat mistress Callia struck
ill, Thratia their only port of refuge. Detan had long suspected Aella
of poisoning Callia to take her place, to take control of her research
under Thratia’s direction. He hadn’t considered that Thratia had
orchestrated the whole thing from the start.
   “You’re insane.”
   She smiled, and the expression was so genuine and girlish she almost
transformed into another woman right before his eyes.“I am determined.”
   “And what do you want me for, then?” he demanded, hating himself for
letting her push him into that corner but needing, so desperately, to
have something real to hold onto. Some kernel of truth from which he
could begin to spin a plan to undo Thratia and Ranalae and any other
cold-hearted bastard he stumbled across on his way to kicking her teeth
in. “Am I trade goods for your enemy as well? A way to fake yourself
close to her so that you may strike?”
   “Haven’t you figured it out yet? Your blood is the only thing of use to
me.”
   His blood. His deviation. The horrible perversion of his
sel-sensitivity, twisted into a weapon to throw at his home city. The
city he’d promised his mother he’d protect. His stomach churned. To
pretend to be a weapon against them, well, he’d expected as much, but –
no.
   That wasn’t what she wanted. She’d said as much, when she’d laughed him
off.
   What what what.
   She reached for him. His skin crawled all over as her fingers curled
around his neck, palm pressing against his jugular, the rising beat of
his heart heavy and hot against her hand. If she choked him, he could
twist away, throw her out that open window. He’d escaped from direr
places, it wouldn’t take more than a week to reach Hond Steading if he
could steal a flier –
   Her fingertips, nails trimmed away to nothing, pads firm with callouses,
traced the outline of the family crest branded into the back of his
neck. The crest that marked him the sole heir of the city she intended
to take. He swallowed, pulse kicking, skin heating.
   There were other reasons to want his blood. Older reasons.
   That smile returned, though this time there was nothing of kindness in
it.“I see you understand.”
   “You can’t be serious.”
   Once, what seemed like lifetimes ago, he spotted Callia’s barge flying
into dock at Thratia’s compound and, not knowing what it was, cracked a
joke about her finally giving in to a political marriage. He did not
feel like laughing now.
   “I am. Your family’s city is unique of the cities of the Scorched, in
its de facto independence from Valathea and its insistence on a
hereditary leadership. Quaint ideals, but useful to me. I want Hond
Steading whole. With one little contract, you can give it to me. No
siege. No war. No one hasto die.”
   He’ll do.
   The distance between them shortened, but did not close, the heat of her
body radiating through a tunic that seemed, to his eye, suddenly too
thin, his own clothes too tight. He cleared his throat, swallowed hard,
tried to get a handle on– on – anything, and came up floundering.
Perhaps for the first time in his life, he was at a loss for words.
   “You have until we arrive at Hond Steading to decide, and make no
mistake, I am marching for that city prepared to break it regardless of
your answer.”
   So perfunctory. So matter-of-fact. He caught himself staring at the
ripple of a scar that marred the side of her face, the brutalization
that was his doing. The evidence of which she wore proudly, black hair
pinned back to reveal the whole scope of the damage.
   He’d done that. Hadn’t meant to, not really, but he hadn’t felt sorry
about it, either. And here she was, the distance between them gone now,
the hard warmth of her pressed against him, head tilted in question,
fingers stroking, stroking, and he could hardly catch his breath let
alone decide ifhe wanted to scream or laugh or weep.
   He brushed her ruined cheek with his fingertips, and she did not flinch
away.
   And then they were together, merging, forceful and firm and breathless.
   He forgot himself. For a little while.
   Chapter Twenty
   Watcher whistles echoed down the lanes of Hond Steading, raising
conflicting prickles all over Ripka’s skin. Old instincts urged her to
run to that call, to assist her fellows. She pushed those urges aside,
focused on what she must do to gain the trust of Latia and Dranik.
   The sight of Dranik’s face, bruised and terrified, firmed her resolve.
He was into something, something that frightened him. And that fear
alone was enough to confirm her suspicions that he meant well for the
citizens of Hond Steading. He’d just been misguided about the best
methods to achieve that goal.
   Distract and evade. What she had to work with wasn’t much – a vague
understanding of the city’s streets, the quiet of night. No crowds
bustled through this neighborhood, the only nightlife seemed to be
centered on the theater. And that was the answer. She mentally saluted
the watchers pursuing her, and hoped Lakon hadn’t trained them as well
as she’d been trained.
   Cloistered in the alley’s shadows, she listened to the clatter of
watcher feet, judged the whistle-blower’s distance, and sprinted into
view.
   He yelped with surprise, and she almost laughed at the sound. She’d cut
it a little too close, but she threw power into her legs and widened the
distance, diving into the shelter of another alley. He couldn’t ignore
that. No way. She paused, panting, wired with tension until she heard
the blast of whistles that meant he’d sighted one of the fugitives and
was in pursuit. Answering blasts broke the night.
   She was prey, and they were hunting dogs.
   Feigning uncoordinated panic, she bumped a stack of crates with her hip
as she fled the alley, sprawling the wood to the ground with a heavy
crash. A neat little trail for them to follow. She couldn’t risk staying
too close, lest he suspect her intentions, but by now he must have lost
sight of the others. In his position, she’d consider the panicked woman
fleeing down random streets a likely target for questioning. Panicky
people were quick to talk.
   The alley opened up into another narrow lane, and she glanced at the
stars. The theater had been to the north, and the sky was clear. She
might not know the streets by name or number, but any Scorched girl
worth their stones could navigate by starlight. Becoming lost in the
Scorched meant death. No exceptions.
   She jogged, saving her breath for the moment the watchers would catch
sight of her again. No sense in sprinting until she had to, there was a
lot of ground yet to cover.
   Watcher whistles sounded behind her and to her right, echoing off the
crowded buildings. Ripka picked up the pace. A shadow fell across the
road, looming from a side-lane. She ducked at the last moment, skittered
sideways and just barely avoided the swipe of a baton. The watcher
swore, but she was already adjusting course, peeling away, the fear of
nearly being caught adding fire to her veins.
   Footsteps thundered behind her, closer now, and she risked a more
circuitous route, ducking and diving between homes, kicking over the
occasional planter to string them forward, but not too much. Ache grew
in her legs, her breath came hot in her throat. Her body was slowing
down.
   They lost sight of her. She heard it in their strained shouts, and
though she couldn’t quite hear their words she could intuit their
meaning:she went that way, no that way.
   Ripka swung closer to the theater. The rock wall they’d escaped through
earlier loomed just across the lane, the watcher’s calls tantalizingly
close. She pushed to her toes, risked a peek in both directions, then
darted across to the wall. The stones were rough beneath her hands,
scraping her palms, but she heaved herself over all the same and landed
stumbling.
   “Who in the pits are you?” a woman demanded.
   Ripka froze, jerked her head up to find the voice. The theater’s
backdoor stood half open. A woman in a snug robe with a long mass of
curls squinted out at her, a smoldering cigarillo between her lips.
   The singer. But there was something familiar about that sharp, dark
face.
   “Laella?”
   The woman squinted through a plume of smoke.“Ripka?”
   They stared, open-mouthed, for an embarrassing moment, then recovered in
synch and pulled themselves up and shut their slack jaws.
   “What are you doing here?” Laella asked, a little breathless.
   “Quick,” Ripka said as she dashed forward. “Give me your wig.”
   “What in the pits for?”
   “Just do it.”
   Laella rolled her eyes and plucked the long wig from her head, revealing
the tight braids that were her usual style. Ripka tugged the mass of
curls over her own hair, tucked her natural strands behind her ear, and
faced Laella.
   “How’s it look?”
   “Ridiculous. What is this all about, Ripka? Did Pelkaia send you?”
   “Haven’t seen her since we arrived.”
   The whistles started up again. Ripka winced, and Laella’s brows shot
straight up as she caught the motion. Before Ripka could explain, a
panting, red-faced watcher stuck his head over the break in the wall and
scowled at them both.
   “You seen anyone come through?” he demanded. “Woman, about her height.”
He jerked his chin to Ripka.
   Laella put on her impervious, Valathean aristocracy act and scoffed as
she tossed her head.“Haven’t seen a soul, save those already in the
theater.”
   “Call out if you see her. Could be dangerous.”
   “I’m quaking,” Laella drawled as the watcher snorted in disgust and dove
away to pick up Ripka’s false trail.
   Ripka breathed out, limp with relief, and almost laughed.“Thanks for
the loan, and the cover.”
   “Don’t mention it. Mind telling me what’s going on?”
   “Rather not,” she admitted. Ripka plucked the wig from her head, made a
cursory attempt at arranging it, then handed it back to Laella. She
stuffed it under her arm without another glance.
   “Didn’t think so.”
   “Mind telling me what you’re doing singing on stage? Can’t be part of
your, ah, training with Pelkaia.”
   Laella’s eyes narrowed. “Rather not.”
   “Fair enough.”
   They gave each other a good, long side-eye, and Ripka had no reason to
doubt that Laella was brimming with just as many questions as she was.
It was probably more than fair that Laella had questions– she hadn’t
been the one seen running from the watch, after all. Ripka shuffled her
feet awkwardly, edging toward the alley that led around to the front of
the theater. And to escape.
   Laella sent her along with a flick of the wrist. Ripka ducked her head
to hide a smirk and turned down the alley, toward the throng of voices
gathered just outside the theater. When she was halfway down the alley,
on a whim, she glanced over her shoulder and caught Laella’s eye. The
girl flicked ash from her cigarillo, frowning.
   “You’ve a lovely voice,” Ripka called.
   Laella scowled, snatched a pebble from the dusty ground, and hucked it
at Ripka all in one smooth movement. Stifling a laugh, Ripka dodged to
the side and sped her steps, preparing to lose herself in the crowd
gathered out front.
   Which was, apparently, a poor plan.
   At the mouth of the alley two obvious bruisers gave her a good long
once-over, not bothering to obscure their glance Laella’s way. Ripka
didn’t dare follow their gazes, but whatever assurance Laella gave them
must have been enough. They turned up their noses at her dusty clothes
and wind-blown hair, but they eased aside to let her sidle past.
   Into a clamor of chaos.
   Ripka winced as half of those gathered near the alley spun the second
she was through the brutes, eyes avid with interest. They closed on her,
all speaking at once. Ripka took an instinctive step backward, brushed
up against the solid wall of the bodyguards and sighed. Might as well
try to move stone with her mind than to convince those two to let her
back to the patio.
   She forced a smile, knowing it was more of a grimace, and tried to
convince herself this wasn’t any different than leaving the station
house after a particularly public, and nasty, crime. Except then,
usually, her blue coat and belted weapons were enough to part the crowds
like a ship’s prow through a wisp of cloud. It seemed every time she
took a step, the theater patrons tightened up.
   “Who are you?” the indistinct voices demanded. “How did you get back
there?” “Where did you come from?” “Did you break in?” “What’s your
name?” “Do you know the songstress?”
   Ripka set her posture firm and shouldered her way past a woman with far
too much alcohol on her breath.
   Of course. Latia had claimed the singer– Laella – was a complete
mystery to the local art scene. She’d shown up just a few days ago – no
doubt shortly after Pelkaia’s ship took harbor in the north – and
allowed no one but her guards and musician to see her outside of the
obscuring stretch of the theater curtain. She was a growing local
legend, a puzzle to be unraveled. Whatever her motives, Ripka had no
desire to out the girl. She’d seen how Laella was treated on Pelkaia’s
ship: a second-class citizen, barely tolerated and trusted, all because
her family had branched from wealthy Valathean stock.
   Couldn’t be much harm in singing a few songs. Ripka schooled her
expression to cold neutrality and weaved through the crowd with force.
Once they realized she wasn’t going to feed their gossip, the crowd
broke up around her, going back to their drinks and snacks and petty
rumors. Ripka let the conversations wash over her, trying to pick up any
hint that might be useful.
   Unless what colors were in vogue for the season, and which art shows
were absolutely mandatory, were facts crucial in the fate of Hond
Steading, she was without luck. Ripka sighed, kicking at the ground as
she blended in with the other theater-goers heading back to their homes
for the evening. There was something sweet in the naivete of these
people. Something innocent, sincere, that Ripka dreaded to pierce.
Though Thratia marched to their homes, though the agents of Valathea
lurked in their northern waters, the greatest worry in these peoples’
lives tonight were if they were fashionable enough, if they’d found the
greatest art.
   Such simple pleasures, simple concerns, made Ripka’s chest ache.
   The traffic thinned out as she approached the neighborhood that housed
Latia’s studio. The night, now that she wasn’t running for her freedom
through it, was nice and crisp. A cool breeze brushed away the sweat and
grime she’d picked up during her flight. Pity she’d have to go and spoil
the pleasant evening by drilling into Dranik’s activities.
   She turned onto the little lane that led to Latia’s house and nearly
jumped out of her boots as the door slammed open, spilling light onto
the walkway. Light, and Latia. The woman barreled out of her home,
skirts flying every which way, and grasped Ripka to her chest in a hug
so firm it crushed the air clear out of her lungs.
   “Oof, easy!” Ripka squeaked, as she sucked down a replacement breath.
   “My dear, we wereso very worried about you!”
   “I wasn’t.” Honey appeared in the doorway, arms folded lightly over her
stomach, her expression bored. From any other woman, Ripka would take
offense at that, but she knew full well Honey meant it as a compliment –
she trusted Ripka’s skill completely, therefore she wasn’t worried.
Simple as that.
   “I’m fine,” Ripka said as she peeled herself out of Latia’s arms. “Let’s
get inside. We need to talk.”
   “Of course, of course.” Latia locked her arm around Ripka’s and herded
her into the house. “Youmust put your feet up, you poor dear. Did
they hurt you at all? I bet you sprouted some nasty blisters from all
that running. Oh! A cool drink for you, yes? Something strong in it?”
   Before Ripka could get a word out, Latia thrust her into a lounge chair
on her back patio and stuffed a cup of something cool, with a sharp bite
she decided not to think too strongly about. It was good, and she was
tired, and that was all that mattered. Wasn’t like she was on duty any
more, and honor-bound not to get drunk in the process.
   Dranik scuttled out after them, pacing a long loop around the patio as
he wrung his hands together. Whatever gentle ministrations Latia offered
to Ripka, it was clear from the dirt on Dranik’s face and his nervous
ticks that she hadn’t bothered offering him the same. The man must have
been brow-beaten the moment he stepped over Latia’s threshold. Probably
sooner. Ripka winced and set her cup aside. An anxious man was never a
good one to interview.
   “Dranik,” she said. His head snapped up, swiveled to find her, eyes wide
as if he’d noticed her for the first time. “Please sit, you’re making me
dizzy.”
   He perched on the seat’s edge as if he were sitting on cactus prickles,
and the slightest shift of weight would dig them in.
   “Thank you, for what you did. If you hadn’t shaken them off then, then,
oh, I don’t know…” He trailed off and took to wringing his hands
together again. They’d be red-raw by the end of the night.
   She had to calm him down. Get him relaxed enough to spill the details of
what had sent him running to them.
   “Peace, it’s all right. I shook them good, they won’t find where you’ve
gone.” She winked at him. “I bet they’re still out there, chasing the
shadows I set up to distract them.”
   Dranik’s shoulders eased.
   “You owe hereverything, Dranik,everything!” Latia clutched her
hands together in her lap. “If we hadn’t had dear Ripka then you’d be in
the clink now for sure, you daft boy. How you manage to even put your
shoes on in the morning I haven’t the foggiest idea. Sweet skies, but
mother taught us better than this.”
   Dranik tensed right back up again.
   Standing to the side of it all, Honey cocked her head and frowned.“I
want to know what’s in the frescoes.”
   “What?” Latia blinked, throwing her gaze around at all three of them as
if seeing them for the first time. “You want a tour of my art? Now is
not the time, dear. Now is an emergency!”
   “The urgency has passed,” Ripka said, smooth as a calm wind. Then she
lowered her voice and tilted her head to stage whisper to Latia. “Honey
is frightened by watchers. Couldn’t you show her your art? I’m sure it
would soothe her.”
   Latia sucked her teeth so loud she sounded like a mud hollow toad, but
eventually she jerked her robe straight and nodded, then whispered back
to Ripka.“I’ll take care of the poor dear.” Then, raising her voice,
said, “Come along, Honey! Let me show you all the strange fishes of my
imagination.”
   As Honey passed by, Ripka mouthed‘thank you’ that only she could see,
and Honey winked. Actually winked. The move was so startling it took
Ripka a moment to gather her wits once the two other women were safely
inside.
   “Dranik,” she said, soft and slow. His name hooked him like a lure, and
he turned to stare at her. “What happened?”
   An anguished groan broke free. He leaned over his knees, gripped his
face in both hands and rubbed vigorously.“I had no idea the others were
doing anything – anythingillegal– please, you must understand that.”
   “I understand,” she said, possibly a little too fast, but he was too
wrapped up in his own pain to notice. “It’s easy to get in over your
head.”
   “Yes, yes, that’s exactly what happened. I got in over my head, couldn’t
figure out what to do once I was in it so deeply.”
   He latched onto the line she’d fed him like it was a life rope, and she
clasped her hands together to keep from clenching her fists. Dranik was
no real criminal. Lines like, ‘in over your head’ and ‘things got out of
control’ only ever got the innocent to confess to the crimes they’d
stumbled into. They were, however, great anchors to use in sussing out
the scope and nature of the criminal activity. Innocent people were
quick to talk, often to their own detriment.
   “It happens,” she agreed in the soothing voice she’d used on hundreds of
witnesses sitting across from her in an interview room over the years.
She considered the next line to feed him, then said, “There’s little you
could have done.”
   “That’s just the thing.” He was suddenly animated, throwing his hands
into the air in exasperation. “If I had just heeded my gut, paid
attention to all those little smoke wisps, those pre-quakes, I know I
could have realized what was really going on sooner. Iknow it. But I
was so– so – wrapped up in the ideal, I made myself blind to the rest.
I thought, well, I guess I thought that if anything shady was going on,
it was ultimately for a good cause. That’s stupid of me, isn’t it?”
   “No,” she said quickly enough so that he wouldn’t have a chance to
interpret her silence as insincerity. “Wanting to believe in something
good is never stupid.”
   “But itis good, I still believe that. I don’t like their methods, but
their minds are in the right place.” He groaned, ruffling his hair.
“Pits below, those watchers poured right into the middle of us, we never
saw them coming. Skies! What if they recognized me?”
   “Then they would have already been here.”
   That calmed him. He flopped backward, arms dangling along either side of
the chair, his head tipped back to stare at the stars. He was working up
to something. Rallying his nerve so that he could tell her, confess to
her, what had happened. What he’d seen. What he had, though he hadn’t
wanted to, been a part of.
   “Liberation should never be achieved through bloodshed,” he said to the
night sky.
   She swallowed. Clenched her hands tighter. She had to find his limits.
Had to make him believe she was sympathetic to his so-called mistake.“What if that’s the only way?”
   Dranik slammed his fist to the arm of the chair and exploded to his
feet, eyes bright with fervor.“It must not be! We are not so oppressed
as that. No, I understand why the Desert Wind is decided on the matter,
I understand the history better than many others. But we are better than
that, we are beyond the petty politics of Valathea. Just because…
Because those poor people, the Catari, wereunable to establish their
freedom from tyranny peacefully does not mean we cannot succeed where
they failed. They were few, and unprepared. We are many, some of the
greatest minds on the Scorched – if not all Valathea – and we have had
warning. There is no reason – none! – that we should reduce ourselves to
violence.”
   Desert Wind. The importance he lent those words made them glow like a
brand in her mind, a key fact to dig into later. If she pushed now,
though, when he had whipped himself up so far, he would clam up,
embarrassed that he’d let the name slip. She’d seen it dozens of times
before. Now, when he was at his most vulnerable – wrought with emotion –
was the time to be gentle. To lure him where she wanted him to go.
   She thought, a little ruefully, that Detan would be proud of her. Had he
been a watcher and received their manipulation training, then that man
would have been unstoppable.
   “What do you want to happen here, Dranik? What do you want to see Hond
Steading become?”
   He paced, heels hitting the ground hard enough to leave half-moon divots
in the dirt. Under the gleam of the stars, he twisted his hands through
his hair, glared at the clear sky, the calm night, as if its
peacefulness affronted him. She let him do all this, let him stomp out
his anger and wring free his fear. The cup Latia had given her was warm
in her palms now, the brew stinging as it slid down her throat. He
paced, and paced, and when even the fine edge of her patience began to
strain, he stopped.
   “I want Hond Steading free.”
   “And what does free mean to you?”
   He half-turned, glanced down the line of his body at her with fresh
awareness in his expression. Maybe she’d revealed too much. Maybe he was
beginning to suspect that she was more than she presented herself as.
Whatever his thoughts on her, he nodded to himself, and his hands fell
slack at his sides.
   “A governance chosen by the people. Representative of them.”
   “And do you believe that Thratia is likely to allow you that? The woman
exiled from Valathea for seizing control of the Saldive Isles – an
independent island chain – just because she could?”
   The sigh that left him seemed to take all his strength with it. He
folded himself back into the chair, hands dangling between bent knees.“No. She won’t. But the Hondings aren’t any better.”
   Ripka shook her head, and made her play.“I think you know better than
that, Dranik. Think it through, now. Dame Honding is hale, but aging,
and her heir is–” Her voice caught, and she covered this by taking a sip
from her cup. “– is unpredictable. If you strengthen your forum, make a
strong case for your representative government to take control once Dame
Honding passes to the endless night, she might just agree. I don’t know
much about your city, Dranik, not personally. But I’ve heard of it, all
across the Scorched. The Hondings have ruled you all with a fair and
even hand, and I don’t believe the Dame would leave you to scramble for
the throne, or at the will of the empire, upon her death. This city is
precious to her–” She caught herself expressing too much familiarity
with the family, saw Dranik’s eyebrows rising, and corrected. “The
history of her family is here. Shemust care deeply for it. She won’t
leave you to drift, if you show her a viable alternative.
   “But Thratia… I’m from Aransa, you know. Once Thratia has her claws
around something she desires, she never lets go. It’s not the people of
this city she cares about, anyway.” Ripka dropped her gaze, turned to
stare pointedly at the humped silhouettes of the firemounts that lined
up back to back along the city’s southern edge.
   Dranik pressed his lips together until the blood fled them, staring at
those shadows. She needn’t say the truth of the matter out loud. Hond
Steading was valuable for its selium. Full stop. The people who lived
there were incidental, perhaps worthless, if their lives were not
conducive to selium mining.
   “Thratia will destroy us.”
   Ripka held her tongue, lest he hear the eagerness she felt to encourage
this train of thought.
   “… I thought. Truly, I thought that she might wake the Dame up. Make her
understand that the city is only as valuable as its people, and their
input on civic matters is a right. But the Dame has always listened, if
not always complied. Thratia will roll over us. Take what she needs. She
won’tever let us be free, and she’s too much the egoist to appoint a
plan for after her death. Hond Steading will fall into chaos.”
   He was talking himself into it, now. She need only extend a small risk.“When we met, you were all for Thratia’s arrival. What changed your
mind?”
   He flinched and brushed his fingertips over his bruised cheek.“I was
with the Desert Wind, when…” He sighed, shoulders rounding forward as
the information he’d feared sharing all night left his lips. “When I
realized they were smuggling more than information into and out of the
city.”
   Fucking got you, Ripka thought. But she kept her expression mostly
neutral, allowed a fine line of concern to mark her brow.“What are they
smuggling?”
   “Into the city? Weapons. Weapons like you wouldn’t believe.”
   “And out?”
   He jerked backward as if someone had yanked on his hair, stuck his gaze
on the sky above so that he would not have to look Ripka in the eye, and
said,“People.”
   Deviants. They must be. Ripka’s world lurched sideways. She sucked a
breath, not needing to fake her shock and disgust, and gripped the cup
in her hands hard to hide the shaking in her fingers.
   “Will you let me help you undo this, Dranik? Will you let me help you
take them down?”
   He lowered his head to look at her, tears like stars sparkling in his
thick lashes.“Please, gods, yes. Help me.”
   Chapter Twenty-One
   Detan woke howling. Fiery pain lanced outward from his shin, shook him
out of his dreams and crested his vision with white stars. He curled in
upon himself, grabbing his shin, sucking air between his teeth.
   He caught the faint scent of musk in each breath and, as the pain faded,
grew aware of the silk-smooth sheets tangled around him. Thratia’s bed.
Thratia’s scent. The pain fled from him in an instant, and he stumbled,
flailing, to his feet. He was alone in the bed. He would have found that
a relief, if he couldn’t clearly make out the place where Thratia had
curled in the night, her back pressed against him, her sleep-breath slow
and even. Should have killed her in her sleep.
   But he hadn’t had the heart for that. No, that wasn’t it. He just hadn’t
been brave enough to try.
   “Good morning, sunshine.”
   He spun. Misol stood at the foot of the bed, her spear propped against
the crook of her arm, a small smirk flattening her lips. He scowled at
her, but that just made her smile. His sleep-slow brain took a few
moments to connect the ache on his shin with the shape of her spear
shaft, and then his scowl deepened to something more than a mask meant
to irritate her.
   “Sweet skies, woman, was that necessary?”
   “You didn’t wake when I called your name, and I’m not about to touch you
while you’re naked.”
   “I am not–” But of course he was. Detan swore while Misol laughed, and
scrabbled to drag a still sweat-damp sheet around his waist. “Are you
here for a reason, or did you just decide there weren’t enough
opportunities to be a demon-whipped ass outside of this room?”
   She rolled her eyes at him.“Don’t flatter yourself. Thratia’s given you
over to Aella for the day. Something about not falling behind on your
testing.”
   “Oh, that’s just fucking lovely.”
   Her smirk was back, slow and coy.“Thought you’d be in a better mood
this morning.”
   “I don’t know what–” but he did. There was no sense playing dumb, or
coy, or any other cursed thing. He’d spent the night in Thratia’s room.
In her bed. Woke naked as the day he was born and, well, the windows
were open but the scent of them pervaded still. His stomach twisted with
the memory of what he’d done. For a moment, all he could see was Bel
Grandon’s throat lying open at Thratia’s feet.
   Long con. Keep it together, Honding. He only had himself to rely on
here, after all. Without Tibs to keep him stable, keep him sane, he felt
like he was breaking at the seams. Maybe that really had been the wrong
move. Maybe he should have spit at Thratia’s feet and refused her
advances.
   Maybe he was just disgusted with how eagerly his body had reacted,
despite his ulterior motives.
   Strength fled his limbs. Trembling so that his knees knocked, he
staggered, lurched. Heat and bitter bile filled his mouth bare moments
before he was at the window, hunched over and retching stomach waters to
dribble down the side of Thratia’s precious compound.
   “Get yourself together,” Misol said, and there was an even gentleness to
her tone that startled him. It was almost a cousin to sympathy.
   “Why are you doing this?” he blurted, then bit his tongue until he
tasted iron. Just because he was desperate for an ally didn’t mean Misol
would be one. Wiping vomit onto the back of his wrist he turned to face
her. Had to see the truth in whatever her expression betrayed.
   She eyed him. Not to observe his nakedness, he knew that. She was taking
in something deeper, using her doppel’s instinct to peel away the layers
of masks he wrapped around himself like a shield. Like a cage. He’d
never felt so truly naked in all his life.
   She sighed then, low and slow, and shook her head. That simple negation
wrenched at his gut, made him ache with a renewed sense of loneliness.“My reasons are my own. Now get dressed. I’ll be waiting.”
   As the door slammed shut behind her he stood a moment, gripping the
sheet to himself like it could hide what he’d done, heart pounding hard
enough to echo in his ears. Bile threatened to rise again, tears
threatened to smear his vision.
   Fuck that. He came here with a goal. With something like a plan. He
wasn’t about to crumble just because he’d boned Thratia Ganal. Just
because Misol, with her bald head and big stick, wouldn’t be his friend.
   Skies above, he was Detan-pitsdamned-Honding.Lord, at that. And this
was his game. He’d stumbled across the board mid-play, certainly. Had
wandered unwittingly into Thratia’s web. But he was pulling the strings
now. Or something like that. Tibs would have a better analogy – probably
involving rocks or gears or shit like that – but none of that mattered.
   What mattered was this: he had the upper hand. They just didn’t know it
yet. And that was exactly what he wanted.
   Detan flung the sheet to the bed and strode over to the water bucket
some well-trained but underpaid servant had left him and scrubbed up,
each brush with the sponge cleansing away his lingering sense of regret.
   By the time he was dressed, in the crisp clothes of a lord that had been
left for him folded neatly on a chair, he was almost feeling human
again. Though he hadn’t failed to notice that, although the clothes were
well-cut and of high quality cotton, they were dyed a smudgey, ashy
grey. Like the sky after he’d set it alight.
   Probably just a coincidence. Probably Thratia had picked those colors
knowing they’d hide dirt more easily.
   The worried glance Misol gave him as he stepped into the hall stopped
him hard in his tracks.
   “What? I know I look sexy in a suit, Misol dear, but–” She snorted and
waved him to silence.
   “Don’t worry about it.” She hefted her spear and took off down the hall.
   “You know, of course, that the moment people start saying things like
‘don’t worry about it’ the intended target of their otherwise benevolent
advice can do nothing but worry about it.”
   “You talk too damned much.”
   “You’re such a stunningly engaging conversationalist, I can’t help
myself.”
   She rewarded him with dead silence, which was probably fair. The halls
of Thratia’s compound – he’d never think of it as her home, it was
another species entirely – wound on for ages. Detan fidgeted. Plucked at
the fine seams inside his pockets, twitched at the lay of his shirt’s
stiff collar. A collar that had been cut just so to reveal the brand at
the back of his neck to any who happened to glance his way. He grimaced
and pulled his hand back. These clothes had definitely been chosen by
Thratia. Only she would turn him into a show-dog like this.
   “Where are Forge and Clink?” he asked, and flinched when his voice
echoed back at him off the hard stone walls.
   “Safe.”
   “Could mean a lot of things.”
   “Means they’re fine, and the rest is none of your business.”
   Well then. If they didn’t want him fraternizing with the other
prisoners, then making them his business was exactly what he was going
to do. He hadn’t a clue why they’d want them separated, or why they’d
draw a hard line about it, but he could spin a lot of guesses – and
every last one of them pointed to an advantage he could use.
   Except for one reason: that they were already dead. Aella might do that,
if she saw no further use for them, and he doubted Thratia would step in
to stop her. Doubted Thratia would ever even know. The commodore– and
why did she still call herself a commodore, when she held the warden’s
seat? – ruled her domain with an iron fist, but he suspected not even
Commodore Throatslitter had the wherewithal to micromanage all of her
bastard helpers.
   The things Thratia counted on to keep her people in line; fear, loyalty,
informants. These things didn’t apply to Aella, unless Misol was an
informant, which didn’t seem likely. He doubted Aella could ever be
properly scared. Pissed off, sure, but the day Aella Ward grew
frightened was the day the world came to an end.
   Misol thumped once on a heavy, iron-banded door with the butt of her
spear, and Detan realized he really should’ve been paying attention to
the path they’d taken to walk here. Big, heavy doors like that were
hardly ever in his favor.
   The door opened to light brighter than the gleam off a bleached bone. He
stumbled back a half-step, brought his arm up to shade his eyes while
they adjusted. Some fool-headed engineer had wrangled a circular shaft
straight through this wing of Thratia’s compound, spearing up all three
levels to the daylight above.
   No balconies marred the place where those levels should be, not even a
window nor a faint discoloration of the stone. It was like being in a
well, and judging by the thickness of the door jamb, a well meant to
hold a whole pits-lot more than a couple of gallons of fresh water.
Someone had gone and brought the desert inside, dusting the ground with
mottled beige-and-brown sands, raked into a curling labyrinth. Aella
waited from him in the heart of it all, a table propped up to her side
with all sorts of nasty equipment he’d come to expect from these
sessions. And Callia, of course. Couldn’t forget Aella’s sadistic
shadow. The withered woman hunched under the table, drawing in the sand
with one finger.
   Thratia’d clearly gone a little soft in the head when she’d ordered this
place built. It was no sort of arena, no testing ground for her
warriors. Anyone standing on the sandy floor was just as likely to get
tangled up in events as those being tested. A few good balconies
wouldn’t have gone amiss. Maybe a nice little dais from which she could
lounge and observe her loyal sycophants fight for her favor.
   But no one, not even Thratia, put walls this thick around a practice
arena. Nor bothered to band the room’s singular door with hard iron.
This room wasn’t built for fighting, it was built for containing. For
dying.
   For him.
   His throat went dry as the sand under his boots. He stopped mid-stride,
caught the smug look on Aella’s face as she watched his realization take
hold, and decided not to give the little witch the satisfaction.
   Decided, most assuredly, not to think about the fact that Thratia had to
order this thing built the day he left Aransa– the day she discovered
what he was capable of – in order to have it prepared for him now. Busy,
busy bee.
   “Aren’t you just a ray of sunshine?!” He threw his arms out in welcome
and strode forward, owning every step he took with a mud-eating grin. He
certainly ignored the derisive snort from Misol as she shut and bolted
the door behind him.
   Aella was wearing a civilian-styled tunic over a long skirt this time,
both in refreshing shades of rare gemstones. Callia still wore her white
coat, grubby at the hem, but he ignored her. Focused on Aella’s even
stare. Callia had been neutralized – by Aella’s own hand. Whatever fear
that woman once inspired in him, whatever tortures she’d visited upon
his scarred flesh, she was no risk to him now, broken as she was. He
could only hope that one day his own fears would be as beaten down as
her body was now.
   “You have come unprepared for our session,” Aella said, cool as ever,
one blonde little brow perked in probably-faked annoyance.
   “My spirit is always ready for the pleasure of your company.” Feigning
clumsiness, he stumbled a step from the table and kicked a plume of fine
sand at Callia. The broken woman shrieked and tumbled backward, clawing
at her eyes with both hands. Aella swore and dropped to her knees to aid
her. Detan took the moment to get a look at the instruments on the table
while being unobserved. Well, mostly unobserved. He felt Misol’s stare
on his back, but the doppel said nothing to alert Aella to his
intentions.
   Aella’d brought the usual tools of her trade. Scalpel, flint stone,
pliers, bags of selium and empty sacks as well. Rope and leather and
other gleaming things that looked threatening but he couldn’t name. In
the name of research, that girl carried a kit that’d make a professional
torturer wet themselves with glee. Skies above, she probably had some
potion in there designed to make a man wet himself against his will.
   There was no sight of the syringe that carried his usual injection of
diviner blood and selium. He tried to ignore the fact, he really did,
but after missing his dose the night, before anxiety was creeping in. A
presence he had come to expect, invisible but always there, was slowly
slipping away. A certain heaviness to the air, a tactile sensation every
time he drew a breath. That injection had made him aware of all the tiny
particles of selium suspended in the air, even if he couldn’t reach
them, and losing them now was like having swaddling stripped away and
being left bare-assed in a cold wind.
   He swallowed his anxiety, recalling one of the meditative exercises
Pelkaia had practiced with him in the time immediately after he’d set
Aransa’s sky on fire: think of a singular goal, and breathe evenly. The
goal was easy enough – get that injection. That first part was making
the second markedly harder.
   “Try to watch yourself, you clumsy oaf,” Aella said after she’d settled
Callia’s whimpers and given the woman a metal mixing rod to draw in the
dust with. Callia shot him little glares every so often, hard to see
through the sunken skin shriveling up her face like an old plum, but
each one of those little glares he took small pleasure in.
   Should have been ashamed of that but, well. Callia had tortured him. And
Detan had never been above small pettiness.
   “A thousand apologies.” He held his palms to the glaring sky and bowed
over them expansively. Already the heat was beginning to draw prickles
of sweat between his shoulder blades. He considered asking Aella if
she’d swap clothes with him, then decided better of it. She didn’t
appear in the mood to tolerate his antics too long, and he knew from
hard experience that pushing her now could lead to greater punishment
down the road.
   And anyway, his one goal wasn’t about being comfortable. It was about
getting that injection. And finding out what had happened to Clink and
Forge. So, fine, two goals. But Pelkaia wasn’t here to scold him about
lack of focus, so to the pits with it.
   “You should apologize to whoever made you that suit, it won’t survive
this. Skies above, Honding, You’ve been given the run of the city. The
servants answer to your needs. Did you not think you could ask for
something a little less formal?”
   He winced, subtly embarrassed that he hadn’t thought about the fact that
their training sessions were quite intense, and he was likely to ruin
all the fine stitch work that been put into what he wore now – not to
mention stain that ash-grey fabric with sweat. But, more importantly,
Aella’d let slip that the servants would treat him as the Lord Thratia
was parading him around as. Handy, that little piece of information.
Servants would no doubt have less compunction about being forthright
with him than his current companions, and anyway, they always had the
best gossip. Considering the pits-cursed nightmares he’d dragged himself
through over the last few months, he was in desperate need of a juicy
story or two to wind down with. Something with an illicit affair being
walked in on.
   “I wanted nothing but the best for our little chats, Aella dear. You do
know how I look forward to them so.”
   The corners of her lips twitched– something like a smile, something
like a smirk. When he’d first met her, minding his leash on Callia’s
airship of nightmares, he’d thought that expression was a smile. Normal
little girls smiled when someone cracked a joke, after all. But Aella
was no normal girl. She was cold straight through, worse if what Misol
had intimated was true – not cold at all. Just… hollowed out inside.
Empty. That lip twitch could mean anything. Annoyance, amusement.
Pleasure at having witnessed someone – anyone at all – score a verbal
point. She did seem to like to spar with him, though her patience with
such things had grown thinner lately.
   If she even had patience. If Misol’s theory was to be believed, then
Aella was a walking blank slate. But that just couldn’t be right. The
girl had passion, drive. They were just pointed in what Detan felt were
rather unfortunate directions. He wondered, just for a moment, if he
could manage to reorient those passions. Harness her drive for something
that didn’t end in him sweating blood for data.
   Callia shuffled in the dirt, and those thoughts evaporated like so much
mist in the desert.
   “Let us begin,” she said, and reached for a bladder of selium.
   Detan made a show of stripping off his coat, laying it with care on a
blank space on the table, and then rolling up his sleeves. He paced,
cutting lines in the sand with his new, too-shiny boots, working up a
proper coating of dust. Never could trust a Scorched man with shiny
shoes. But the dust just wouldn’t stick. Thratia’d had them polished
sleeker than a crow’s back.
   “What’s the rush?” He was sweating now in full force, dampness seeping
through his back in ribboned patterns. The scars on his back never
sweated. Most of the time, he could ignore that. But now the memories of
the fire he’d set to the sky came crashing back, his imagination so
strong he could almost feel the lick of the flames eating his shirt
away, kissing his skin all over. The same flames that’d mottled
Thratia’s cheek.
   Awareness of the selium seeped into his being, his senses reaching out
on instinct, finding the bladder Aella held, feeling out its shape and
its volume. Some small part of him lamented that there wasn’t nearly
enough there for him to set the sky afire again. Maybe… Maybe he could
thrust it up. Make a little fire. Just fill in the top of this
thrice-cursed well with some real life. Show the sun’s rays what real
heat could do.
   Pain splashed over him, danced those thoughts away. He winced, hopped
back, grabbed at his shin and cursed himself and Misol and just about
any other handy name that came to mind. The doppel just looked at him,
gaze hooded and bored.
   Aella sighed and clucked her tongue against the roof of her mouth.“As I
feared. As soon as withdrawal sets in, he becomes almost as
unpredictable as before his training.”
   “What–” he sucked air, made himself put his aching leg down and resist
an urge to blow all four of them to itty bloody bits. “What in the pits
did you do to me just then? I wasn’t even thinking about…” he waved a
hand, describing the rough shape of a blob of selium with the edge of
his palm. “And then I was ready to blow us all to smoke.”
   “I did nothingto you, I merely introduced the presence of selium.
Made you remember its existence, its nearness. You have grown so
unstable over the night without your dose that that was all it took.”
   “Donkeyshit,” he snapped. “I’ve never felt that way before – never
without reason.”
   “And don’t you have one?” She gave him a real smile now, a coy little
thing that he’d bet his right testicle she practiced in the mirror to
get just right. “You have quite a lot to be angry about, Honding. All
the time. We all do, really. All the petty injustices of the world, they
just pile up. Mount and mount until we break. Some people reach for a
bottle, some mudleaf. Some practice meditations, or skies forbid, talk
their worries out with another sympathetic being. We’re all simmering,
just a little. You’re just quicker to boil than others, and the
injections have made you more sensitive. And yet, without them, your
irritation comes so swiftly it’s like you’ve never had them at all.
Fascinating.”
   “Fascinating? Really? Would you find it just plum-bloody-interesting if
I stubbed my toe and took all our heads off in retaliation? Skies above,
Aella, you swore you could teach me control.Real control. This is
moving backwards.”
   She shrugged, as if it mattered not at all to her.“You really can be
thick sometimes. This isn’t a regression – not technically. It’s a
revelation. A hint as to what exactly is pumping through those veins of
yours, or going on in that tiny brain. Did you know, before I left the
Bone Tower, that the whitecoats had yet to discern just where exactly in
the body sel-sensitivity originated from? I can’t even tell you the
amount of cadavers they mucked around in trying to find a source,
peeling the brain layer by layer looking for any anomaly. They found
nothing in all that long research, and here you are upset because your
control slipped a touch. Pah. You’re cleverer than that, though you try
very hard not to be. Think it through, now. The injections gave you
finer control, and the removal of them has shaken the baseline of
ability you already possessed. Why?”
   “I am not your tailcoat-clinging whitecoated pupil, Aella. This isn’t
some twisted school quiz – and don’t expect me to believe for a moment
that your esteemed colleagues in the Bone Tower were rummaging around in
the bodies of just the dead.”
   An eyebrow twitched, her head jerked back just slightly. He’d scored a
point against her, reminded her of things that broke through even her
veneer of indifference and unsettled her. His small victory lasted only
a breath.
   She reached into the pocket of her tunic, produced a syringe, showed it
to him, swirled it, let the sel mingling with the blood gleam in the
light.
   “I mixed it just a moment ago, before you arrived. Thratia has a whole
stable of diviners, did you know? She cultivates that deviation, sends
them out into the harsh and hot world to find untapped resources of
selium. They were all happy to donate a sample, after Thratia explained
the situation to them. This one’s from a woman. Healthy girl. Keen
sel-sense. She was eager to help.”
   Aella tucked the syringe back into her pocket and pinned him with a
look.“Such a shame blood goes to poison so quickly in this heat.” She
glanced at the hot sky. “We’d better work quickly. That woman has gone
out scouting, and do you want to know a secret?”
   He grit his teeth and asked,“What?”
   “There just aren’t that many people in the world who can donate blood
for these types of things.” She stroked her pocket, cradling the outline
of the glass hidden within. “Took us – apothiks and whitecoats both, you
know – ages to figure out the secret. Some bodies produce blood of a
certain, special flavor. It can harmonize with all other types. But try
to mix any other two together?” She drew her thumb across her throat and
made a croaking sound. “It’s not a pretty way to go.”
   “Aella.” He hated the rasp that’d worked its way into his voice but, to
pits with it, if she thought he was dangerous – thought he verged on
going out of control – then maybe she’d give him the injection for all
of their safety. He caught himself scratching at his inner elbow, in the
place where previous needles had left tiny scars, and forced himself to
make fists instead. “It wasn’t my fault I missed last night’s dose.
Whatever you’re punishing me for, bring it up with Thratia. I have to do
as she says, same as you.”
   “We are not the same,” she snapped, fingers clenching around the syringe
so hard he winced, fearing she’d break it. “And unlike you, I can do as
I please. Thratia may have taken you to her bed, but do not confuse her
use of you as a political tool with protection. You came to me –kneeling– to discover the secrets of your power and I have found
something here, Honding. Found somethinginteresting, and short of
killing you I have free rein to do as I please, do you understand? I
will make you understand yourself, whether you’re willing or not.”
   “This can’t be useful, please–”
   She waved him off.“That’s withdrawal talking. Unfortunate, but we can
work through it. Now–”
   Detan lunged. Hadn’t even thought about it. One moment he was standing
there, trying to find another angle to weasel that syringe into his arm
without losing too much dignity, and the next he was lurching forward
like someone had yanked on his puppet strings.
   But he’d never been a fighting man, and that was probably best for them
all.
   Misol swept his legs with the butt of her spear and he went down hard,
chest-first into the hot sand. His instincts reached out, flung in all
directions, mapping all the amounts of selium in the room. Numbness fell
over him like cold water– Aella clamping negating power over his.
   He shivered, clinging to the scorching sand, and tried to pretend that
in the moment he’d lunged, in the moment Aella’d leapt back to avoid
him, he hadn’t heard the crack of glass. Wasn’t seeing, now, the dribble
of sel-infused blood pooling on the ground.
   Aella sighed, low and disappointed. Detan picked up his head, forced
himself to look at what he’d done. A red smear spread out from Aella’s
pocket and she was, gingerly, peeling off the over-tunic.
   “If your little fit is over,” she said, and he wanted to weep as she
chucked the ruined garment to the ground and stood over him, hands
propped on her still-small, childish hips. “Let us begin.”
   Chapter Twenty-Two
   The sun was threatening to rise by the time Ripka and Honey had hammered
out their plans with Dranik and dragged themselves, aching and
exhausted, back to the palace. Even at night it was a piece of art.
Carved into the side of a dormant firemount, the wide terraces of the
stepped structure were strung with glimmering oil lamps, faceted glass
splashing brightness in all directions. A flagrant display of Hond
Steading’s wealth, but one the citizens seemed to admire. They struck
Ripka as ostentatious, but then, this wasn’t her city. She wasn’t sure
she’d ever have a city to call her own again.
   The front steps were more in line with Ripka’s aesthetic. They were
broad and shallow, spaced in such a way that would make them difficult
for an invading force to take at any speed. The builders of this place
had carved it into a gleaming jewel, and its edges could still cut when
required.
   The guards lining the walkway were reminder enough of that. Jacketed in
sharp black, spears held easy at their sides, they dotted both sides of
the broad stairs on every third step, their gazes locked on all
approaching visitors. They appeared ceremonial to the average citizen,
but Ripka saw the tension in their jaws, the spring in their knees, and
knew them the deadliest warriors the city had to offer. And the city
would soon need them.
   Massive double doors loomed at the top of the steps, thrown wide despite
the late night. Dame Honding welcomed her citizens to seek refuge in her
palace at all times. In the few days Ripka had been in the palace, she’d
stumbled across troubled souls more than once, pacing or praying or
weeping in silence in the solitude of the Dame’s home.
   There was kindness here, amongst the harsh living of the desert. A
kindness born from the seed of the ruling family’s philosophies. She
wondered if Dranik ever considered that.
   She stepped into that place of welcoming, and a guard grabbed her arm.
   “Miss Leshe, Miss Honey?”
   “Yes? Is there a problem?”
   A red-eyed man reading on a bench nearby looked up, assessed the two
women being apprehended, and shuffled away to a far seat. She couldn’t
blame him.
   “The Dame wishes a word with you.”
   “It is very late…”
   “She has been waiting.”
   Ripka nodded understanding. They were escorted through the welcoming
room and down a side hall Ripka knew well– the path to the Dame’s
private sitting room. Her heart thundered, wondering just what had kept
the Dame up through the night to speak with her. When the door opened,
her stomach dropped.
   The messenger she’d intercepted stood alongside Dame Honding’s chair,
his pale face streaked with what might have been dried tears. Tibal
lingered to the side of the room, Enard on the other, and both had a set
of guards twin to the two escorting Ripka and Honey.
   Ripka put a placid face on, and bowed over her hands like this were any
other meeting.“Good evening, Dame.”
   The Dame snorted and flicked the hem of her long sleeve.“My patience
has burned away with the lamp oil, Miss Leshe. You know why you are
here, do not insult us both by pretending otherwise. You accosted this
young man and intercepted a message from me meant for the Valathean
Fleet. Why?”
   Ripka wished she was facing this with a well-rested head. After a
moment’s consideration, she decided to gamble with the truth. “I find
Ranalae’s promises to you impossible, and I fear what will happen to
Hond Steading if you invite her and her forces within your walls.
Frankly, Dame, once she is inside your palace, you will never get her
out again.”
   “Now that’s unfair.” Ranalae stepped from behind a pillar. The dignitary
looked ragged from lack of sleep, but otherwise composed. Maybe even a
little amused. “I do have my own home to return to.”
   I bet you do, Ripka thought, but bit her tongue. Antagonizing the woman
without a point wouldn’t win her any good will from the Dame, and that
was what she desperately needed now.
   Interfering with a Honding messenger was treason. And she knew full well
how treason would be handled in Aransa: walk the Black, or face the axe.
She licked her lips, composing an argument to keep Honey, Enard, and
Tibal free of the fallout she’d brought down upon them all.
   “I understand,” the Dame said, “that you faced a great deal of hardship
in Aransa. The stories you have told me, and that I have heard from
others, are quite chilling. But I fear your experiences have biased you
to reality, my dear. The Scorched exists because of the goodwill of
Valathea. Even Hond Steading, though unique in its system of government,
relies on the empire for trade and, yes, even protection, when it comes
to that. Relations between our city and the empress have always been
strong. And now, in our time of need, they have come to our aid. I will
not allow you to insult ourimperial friends to soothe your paranoia. Is
that clear?”
   “And where was their friendship, when they took your nephew and tortured
him?” The words were out before she could stop them, thrown hard as
knives against a woman she could not otherwise wound.
   The Dame took a sharp breath, but Ripka’s gaze was on Ranalae, whose
smile turned decidedly predatory. Whatever Ranalae’s position in the
empire, she knew. She must know what went on in the Bone Tower. There
was no hiding something like that from the higher-ups. And, in knowing
and doing nothing, Ranalae had been complicit in Detan’s suffering.
Could even be held accountable for the wall he brought down during his
desperate escape.
   “Those rumors are unsubstantiated,” the Dame snapped, “and the fanciful
imaginings of sick minds. They tried to cure my nephew’s loss of
sel-sense, he did not take well to the treatment. That is all.”
   “Is that what Ranalae told you?”
   Ranalae smiled knives at Ripka, but she pushed on. She’d already stepped
in the quicksand, might as well get a few shots off before she was
buried. “He was never a normal sel-sensitive. He was always deviant, and
they dug around in his flesh to figure out why.”
   “That. Is. Not. True.” The Dame’s cheeks had gone scarlet, her fingers
curling into the arm of her chair.
   “Why don’t you ask him, instead of this sycophant?”
   “He isn’t here!”
   Ripka jerked back a step, the anger seeping out of her sails. That was
real pain in the Dame’s voice, broken and ragged, and it shook Ripka to
realize she’d done that to the woman – that she’d ripped a scab right
off a festering wound. While Ripka fumbled for words, the Dame shot a
glance at Tibal and said, “Despite my best efforts otherwise.”
   “He ain’t a pet to put on a leash,” Tibal drawled and rolled his
shoulders. “But.” He hesitated, flicked a gaze to Ripka. “She’s right,
you know. Weren’t pleasant little talks they were having with Detan in
that tower. Talks don’t make a man scream in his sleep.”
   “My nephew,” the Dame grated out the words, “is beside the point. The
point is your treason, Miss Leshe, and your accomplices in the act.”
   “I pressed them all into it,” she said immediately.
   The Dame waved this off with a flick of her fingertips.“Noble of you,
but I do not care. You are all quite lucky that the only damage you
succeeded in causing was delaying matters by a few marks. If it had been
otherwise, I would have you struck down where you stand. Now, out of
deference to the friendship you have all shown my nephew, you may leave
this place with your lives. But youare leaving this place.”
   She snapped her fingers, and the guards brought forward finely made
rucksacks and set them at the feet of all four. Ripka picked hers up,
flicked back the top, and was unsurprised to see her new clothes stuffed
inside.
   “But you are not leaving this place completely free. Meet your new
friends.” She inclined her head to the guards, none of whom so much as
twitched an eyebrow in response. “They will escort you out of the palace
and into an inn in the market district. That’s the other side of the
city, you’ll note. There you will be given two rooms to split however
you please, and I will cover the cost for the duration of your stay.
Which will be indefinite, as I will not have the time to figure out what
to do with you four until well after Thratia has been repelled from
these walls. The rules of your new lives are simple: you may not leave
the grounds of the inn without escort, and then only for excellent
reason. And you, Tibal.” She swivelled to pin him with her gaze. “You
will be watched exceptionally closely, and your flier will remain here
for safekeeping until I decide what to do withyou.”
   He bared his teeth at the Dame, an expression of aggression that shocked
Ripka straight to the core.“Wouldn’t want to risk losing your spare
heir, would you?”
   She drew back as if struck, then pressed her lips together and gathered
herself once more.“You are of my blood, though it chafes you so.
Whether you believe me or not, I care what happens to you. I will see
you safe, even if I must imprison you to ensure that fact.”
   “Why not just lock us up? You’ve got a big jail here.” Tibal’s arms came
unfolded, his head cocked to the side like he’d scented blood in the
air. “Why dress up what you’re doing to us like it’s something better
than imprisonment?”
   “Because it is most decidedly temporary, and my jail is for persons who
have been convicted of crimes.”
   And the only crime they could be accused of was treason. Which always,
always, came with a death penalty– no matter how enlightened a city
claimed to be. Ripka shot Tibal a look, but he must have figured it out
for himself, because he shut right up and took a step back, folding his
arms over his chest to start a good and proper sulk.
   Dame Honding surveyed them all, let her gaze linger on every last
so-called traitor she’d harbored under her roof, and a spike of guilt
stabbed at Ripka’s chest. Though she had been acting for what she felt
was the greater good, still she had betrayed this woman’s trust. This
firm, kind woman, who was struggling to keep her city safe while what
little was left of her family dissolved all around her.
   Though her expression was stern, the Dame appeared so very tired in that
moment, and not just due to the late night. In fact, Ripka doubted she
got to bed at a reasonable time at all any more. The unsteady lantern
light highlighted the crow’s feet stamped around her eyes, the hard
lines about her lips where she’d spent her life schooling her expression
to careful neutrality. Here was a strong woman, a proud woman, worn thin
by time and circumstance, looking for a future – any future with a
positive outcome – for the people she had spent her life serving. And
now, toward the end of her life, she had nothing at all to support
herself with. No family. No army. Just a lot of scared people, and a
tenuous alliance with an empire that’d always been hungry to reclaim
control of her family’s legacy.
   But she wasn’t alone, though she didn’t quite understand that fact.
   “Time to go,” Ripka’s guard said. Mechanically, she swung her pack over
her shoulder, unable to take her gaze from the Dame.
   Halfway to the door, she called,“You know how to find him. Write to
him. Please.”
   The Dame’s brows lifted, and then Ripka was ushered out of the room, and
the door clicked shut behind her.
   Chapter Twenty-Three
   When Aella had finished wringing his will down to nothing, Detan
stumbled free of the arena and stood, bent over and panting, in the
hallway. While he was busy trying to figure out how to make his feet
work again, a grey-haired man in the livery of Thratia’s household staff
passed down the hall, took one look at Detan, and halted.
   “Is my lord all right?”
   Detan squinted up at him. Though the man was a bit stooped with age, he
held himself with a stiff grace, wiry grey hair slicked back into a
perfect, cloud-like swoop. Detan’s first instinct was to tell the man
off – he wasn’t much in the mood for company after Aella’d put him
through his paces – but something in the man’s manner reminded him of
New Chum and put him instantly at ease.
   “Can I ask a rather stupid question?”
   The man’s expression twitched, hiding whatever his knee-jerk reaction
would have been – probably a joke at Detan’s expense. Detan grinned.
Yes, he could get along well with this man.
   “I will do my best to answer, sir.”
   “Do you happen to have any idea where my room is?”
   The man’s brows lifted. “Do you have a head injury, sir? I can take you
to the apothik straight away, or bring one to your side.”
   He forced himself to stand, leaning his back against the cold stone of
the wall, and threw him a lopsided smile.“Whatever damage’s been done
to my head was done ages ago, my good man. No, I just arrived yesterday
morning and I – ah – have yet to spend an evening in my own bed.”
   “That I can assist with. This way please, sir.”
   Detan regained some semblance of dignity by smushing his hair back down,
and followed. The servant kept a crisp pace, but the moment he heard
Detan’s breath rasping in his chest he slowed without a word. Detan was
so starved for kindness that simple act very nearly made him weep with
joy.
   “What’s your name, grey-fox?”
   The servant’s steady steps faltered at this nickname, and he turned his
head to hide his expression – but not quickly enough. A little hint of a
smile peeked through. “I am Welkai.”
   “Been here long, Welkai?”
   The man threw him a bemused glance. Seemed most servants weren’t used to
having to do any part of the talking that wasn’t yes sir-ing and no
sir-ing. “I have been with the commodore a year, but I’ve lived in
Aransa all my life, sir. As did my parents.”
   Ah, a proper Scorched native. A son of a family who’d set down roots in
one of the Scorched’s rapidly growing cities, who identified not as
Valathean but as Aransan first and foremost. He thought of red-cheeked
Jeffin, the young lad’s anger boiling over at the thought of allowing
someone who was not Scorched to partake of the safety of Pelkaia’s ship.
Such pride could be a dangerous thing. Could draw lines in the sand that
could be exploited.
   And if he were a proud Aransan, he may not be too keen on Thratia’s
transformation of the city, and that was something Detan could use. But
first he’d have to let the man know he was sympathetic to civic pride.
   “Nice to have that sense of history. Not many in the Scorched get that
pleasure nowadays, with people migrating here and there for work.”
   “Indeed, sir. My brothers and I were lucky our parents chose Aransa to
settle down in, as there are a wide variety of opportunities in this
city that cannot be found elsewhere. Begging your pardon, my lord, I am
sure such opportunities also exist in Hond Steading, but Aransa is big
enough for ourneeds.”
   He waved off Welkai’s social stumble with a smile. “My old homestead can
be a bit too big for its britches sometimes. Aransa’s a good city, a
nice size and full of possibility.” He’d once thought it was big enough
for him to roam through without notice, to play his cons and ramble the
streets free as the man he wished he could be. But he’d soon learned
that the world was slow to forget him, and not even Aransa’s shadows
cast far enough to hide the fire in his past. “Your brothers work at the
compound too, then?”
   A twitch of the shoulders, a subtle hunch forward quickly hidden by
turning down a rug-lined hall.“My brothers work the selium mines, sir.”
   “Ah,” was all Detan could manage. The night he’d escaped from Aransa, he
and Pelkaia had burned the mine’s Hub to the ground – and with it
Aransa’s economic stability.
   Welkai stopped. He stood perpendicular to the wall, his body stiff all
over with repressed emotion– emotions Detan didn’t even want to guess
at. Welkai knew who he was. And even though Thratia had made it clear as
a blue sky to all of Aransa that Detan Honding hadn’t actually been
responsible for the fire at the Hub after all, it’d been the doppel…
well. That hadn’t been the story she’d spread originally. Originally,
she’d let the truth fly through the streets, had let the people of
Aransa learn to hate him. Didn’t matter what she said now. Rumors were
rumors, and anger was a real hard thing to let go.
   “Sir.”
   Detan flinched. He’d braced himself subconsciously, preparing for a
strike – physical or verbal – that he knew, really knew, that he
deserved.
   “I – I’m sorry,” he stammered. He knew he owed them all an apology. Knew
words weren’t really sufficient.
   Welkai shifted his weight, lips pressed hard together as if he were
holding something back. Probably he was. Probably his family couldn’t
afford to lose one more source of income due to Detan fucking Honding.
   “Your room, sir.” Welkai unlatched the door that stood between them, let
it swing open. “If that is all you need…?”
   He hesitated, hating to ask this man for any more than he’d already
taken from him. But if he were going to see Hond Steading safe from
Thratia, he needed to leverage everything he had. Even if that meant
leaning on a man he’d already taken far too much from. With a false
smile plastered over his face, as if they were old friends and not
potential enemies, Detan leaned on the door frame and tried to look
abashed.
   “Thank you for the escort, my good man. Tell me, I docked here with two
other companions – Forge and Clink are their names. What rooms did they
end up in?”
   Welkai’s brow furrowed in legitimate confusion. “I’m sorry, sir. Only
yourself, Aella, and her staff took rooms here. If there were others,
they may have sought rooms in the city. Perhaps the Oasis hotel.”
   Detan forced his smile wide to keep from grimacing.“Thank you, I’ll
check for them there.”
   Welkai bowed, all rigid formality, which was somehow more hurtful to
Detan than outright anger. Anger he knew well. Polite indifference was
another weapon altogether.
   He let himself into the room and shut the door, hands shaking from more
than exhaustion. Welkai. Renold Grandon. The faces of the havoc he’d
wrought the last time he’d blown through Aransa haunted him. One he’d
targeted simply because he hadn’t liked his manner, the other an
innocent casualty of his desperation to escape.
   But not just to escape. He’d been trying to do some good. Trying to save
deviants, if he at all could, from the same horrors he’d experienced
locked up with the whitecoats. Trying to get his friends clear of the
terror, too. How many people had he harmed, trying to set things right?
What right had he, to decide what wasbest for a city?
   He’d failed Aransa. Failed this city in a variety of ways he was now
certain he wasn’t finished discovering. But he wouldn’t fail Hond
Steading, too. Wouldn’t let the city his mother had loved and his dear
auntie protected fall under Thratia Ganal’s control.
   No matter her so-called reasons– and he wasn’t yet convinced he
believed her – she was a woman who couldn’t be trusted. A woman who
traded lives into torturous ruin just to reach her greater cause. A
woman who let Bel Grandon bleed out at her feet, just to make life more
difficult for Detan.
   No. Thratia may think she was doing the right thing, but she was no
salvation. Not for Hond Steading. Not for the Scorched. Not for anyone.
He’d stop her. He had to.
   And he was going to have to convince her he was willing to marry her to
do it.
   When he’d stopped trembling, Detan stripped off his dusty, sweaty
clothes and pitched them to the floor, scarcely taking in the room he’d
been appointed for his stay here. Bed, rug, wardrobe, window, wash
basin. Wasn’t too much different from Thratia’s room, save the
lackluster view looking out onthe dusty warehouse district, but it was
plusher than a lot of hovels he’d spent his time in. And still, somehow,
more oppressive than the stinkiest jail cell he’d ever been locked in.
   Methodically, he washed and dressed again, trying not to think too hard
about the fancy clothes that’d been stuffed in his wardrobe. Trying not
to think too hard about how well they all fit him, and how they’d been
tailored in shades of ash and stark carnelian. Flame and smoke. Thratia
knew what he was, what he could still become. And though she claimed she
did not need his deviant sense to gain control of Hond Steading, she was
no fool. She’d let her enemies know, through whispers, that little Lord
Honding was all grown up, and hadn’t lost his sel-sense at all. No, he’d
been forged into something else. Something dangerous. Dangerous enough
that not even the empire – though skies knew they tried – could keep him
on a leash. He’d never be able to hide from the fire in his veins again.
   Which meant he must own it, must truly master his own temper, to survive
what was coming next. For Valathea would be coming for him in force, now
that the secret was open, and he had no doubt that the simple fact of
his existence would create for him enemies he’d never dreamt of. And
worse, never see coming.
   As he dressed, he recalled old lessons his mother had drilled into him
before her death. Thought long and hard about duties he’d promised to
uphold long before he’d blown the selium pipeline he worked to cinders
and found himself a guest of the Bone Tower.
   Power is no gift, she’d told him as her breath rattled in her chest.
Power is a burden that must be leashed, always, to the good of those who
do not hold it.
   He’d never questioned her. Never dared to press her for deeper meaning.
Everything she told him he absorbed like a sponge, hoarded it greedily
in the vaults of his memory. His mother had never been well, not in his
living memory. The bonewither took her early, set her trembling and pale
and fragile. He’d used to hug her by circling his arms around her waist,
and marveling how he could touch his hands behind her without ever
touching her at all.
   And now, dressing in the formal clothes she might have picked for him
had she lived to see him through to adulthood, he wondered: did she
know? Was she as prone to fire as he, though she hid it a thousand times
better?
   Pelkaia had intimated as much. Had claimed that his bloodline was meant
to be extinct, that the only possible reason for his existence was a
Catari exile who must have ended up in Valathea, fleeing those hunting
them for the strength of their sel-sense.
   What secrets haunted his family? What had his mother been trying to tell
him, in all her quiet lessons on power? He had thought she meant the
rule of Hond Steading. And she had, at least on the surface. But… But
his auntie had never given him such lessons, and certainly never in the
tone of voice his mother had used. And his auntie had not a hint of
sel-sense in her body.
   Detan stared up at the sky through his sliver of a window and asked the
smeared clouds,“Did you know?”
   He’d pushed himself away from her lessons after he’d escaped the Bone
Tower, assuming he’d never take his old family throne. But now he faced
it, faced that future, and wondered if he’d ever really known his family
at all.
   He shook himself. One thing was as certain as the pits were molten, his
mother would have slapped him upside the head for ever allowing Thratia
Ganal to get within a step of Hond Steading’s reins.
   He needed a better lay of the land, a clear look at all his possible
options. He needed to find Clink and Forge, and he knew damned well they
weren’t lounging around in a posh hotel like the Oasis. They were dead,
cast off by Aella for running out of usefulness, or else the more likely
reason Welkai hadn’t even heard of them: they’d never left the transport
ship at all.
   Detan drank from a cold cistern that some poor sod like Welkai had left
in his room, wondered briefly if Welkai might ever consider poisoning
him, then shrugged. If he kept on jumping at every little fear, he’d
never get anything done at all. And skies knew, he had as much to do as
there were grains of sand in the Black Wash. And very, very little time
left to do it in.
   Chapter Twenty-Four
   No one could ever accuse Dame Honding of treating her prisoners to cheap
accommodations. The guards saw them settled in the upper floor of the
Hotel Cinder, a quaint building of grey stone in the shadow of the
city’s second largest firemount. The smoothness of the carved walls
spoke of quiet pride in the city’s selium miners, who moved selium from
the belly of the firemounts at just the right pace to keep quakes from
rumbling their footing. The Cinder was a monument to those miners:
crafted fully of stone, not a single wooden support beam to absorb an
errant shake, and so very close to the firemount itself.
   Ripka would have spent more time admiring the place, if it weren’t her
prison.
   “She cannot keep us cooped up here,” Ripka said, as she paced the narrow
lane between the door and the room’s small, singular window.
   “But she is.” Honey sat on the edge of the bed, her sturdy legs not
quite long enough to touch the floor, so she swung her feet in small,
rhythmic arcs. Ripka gave her a solid side-eye, genuinely not able to
tell if the woman were being sarcastic or not.
   A polite scratch at the door interrupted Ripka’s train of thought. She
scowled at the thick plank of wood, knowing it was locked, and forced
herself to sound somewhat amiable. It wasn’t the guards’ fault she was
locked up here.
   “Come in.”
   A key clanked in the lock, and the door slid open to reveal a rather
contrite-looking Tibal and Enard, a black-clad guard their constant
shadow.
   “You have half a mark,” the guard said, then ushered the men within and
shut the door behind them.
   Enard moved forward immediately, barely checking himself from gathering
Ripka up in his arms. Tibal lingered behind him, a surly shadow, arms
crossed as he scowled around the room as if he could find fault in the
furniture for all the misfortune that had yet befallen him. Despite his
body language, it was Tibal who spoke first.
   “As, despite my best wishes, you have successfully drawn me into your
mess of a scheme, you had better tell me the details.”
   His posture, she realized, was not wary acceptance of his fate. Though
Tibal had his arms locked down around him, he had a slight forward lean,
a subtle gleam in his eye. He might pretend annoyance, but Tibal was
intrigued by whatever Ripka had dragged him into. Despite the weariness
of a long night, Ripka felt a little lighter. This was the first time
she’d seen a spark of the old Tibal re-emerge since Detan had left them
behind at the Remnant.
   “The part regarding the Valatheans you know well.” He grunted, a
disgusted agreement. “The rest I have uncovered mostly recently.”
   She launched into her early suspicions that Thratia would use similar
methods to those she had used in Aransa to such great effect, and her
first investigations into the cafes, and what she found there. The forum
seemed to spark some interest in Tibal, his brows raising high in
appreciation, but she didn’t bother lingering long on that feature of
local politics.
   Keeping her voice carefully controlled, she explained the events of the
night. Their run-in with Dranik at the Ashfall Lounge, and his
subsequent confession to her that his movement for freedom was not as
pure as he had thought.
   With every word laid down, Ripka only had eyes for Tibal’s response. She
felt Enard stiffen near her, but his reaction was a known quantity. It
was Tibal who had proven unreliable in recent months, and Tibal’s help
they needed now. Ripka was clever, Enard calm in a crisis, and Honey a
willing accomplice, but Tibal had bent his recent years to the very type
of subterfuge they must attempt to flush out and befuddle Thratia’s vile
network.
   By the time she was done telling the tale, Tibal was still as a boulder,
every hard line of muscle stiff beneath his dusty, grease-stained
clothes. While Hond Steading’s future had not previously roused him to
any emotion at all, being confronted with the very human reality of it –
of people disappearing, and Thratia’s network at hand – had clearly
unsettled him. Tibal wouldn’t fight for a city, any city. But he would
fight for a city’s people, and that was the distinction he’d drawn sharp
as an obsidian blade.
   “I see,” Tibal said, and managed to lay into those two simple words the
full scope of his intention. He saw, and he would help, and he would not
stop until he’d fixed what he saw was broken.
   “We must get away from our jailers to do any good at all,” Enard said.
   She flashed him a small smile and squeezed his arm.“Escaping jails is
something we have recent experience in. But you’re right, and the sooner
the better. If I miss my meeting with Dranik tomorrow I fear he’ll go to
ground, and that will be a hard trust to rebuild, if we can even find
him.”
   “That sister of his,” Enard said, “is she in it, too?”
   “Hard to tell. She’s an exuberant woman, and often disgusted with her
brother’s melancholy nature. She brushes off his obsession with things
political, but…”
   “She knows,” Honey said, soft as always. “Women like that know
everything that goes on in their house.”
   “What time are you due to meet him?” Tibal asked.
   “Nightfall, at a place very near the lounge I spoke of.”
   Tibal puffed his cheeks up and blew air out in a great gust.“Not a lot
of time to get us out of here. Six guards on two stories of building,
and we haven’t been here nearly long enough to know their habits.”
   “And these two need rest.” Enard glanced pointedly at Honey, whose head
was lolling to one side, though her eyes were open. Ripka had to admit
that the very thought of making any escape now, when her muscles were
still screaming from her earlier flight from the watchers, made her feet
feel likeanchors.
   “Daybreak, then,” Ripka said. “No doubt our guardians will rouse us
early for a meal. We’ll take account of things then, and wing a plan if
we must.”
   Tibal asked,“Are you prepared to follow my lead, if it comes to that?”
   A week ago, she wouldn’t have trusted him to lead her anywhere but a
bottle. But he had a spark back, one she hadn’t seen since he and Detan
had joined their heads together to figure out the best way to get Nouli
out of the Remnant.
   “You’re the expert,” she said.
   He grinned like a rockcat who’d caught a viper for his supper, and
tipped his singed, floppy grey hat to her. In all his surly rebuke of
Detan’s abandonment, he hadn’t stopped wearing the hat they’d fought
over as long as she’d known them both.
   A heavy pounding on the door startled them all– well, all except Tibal.
While she and Enard and Honey flinched from the sound, Tibal just
smirked, eyeing the door with quiet contempt. He was in his element, and
the very sight of his confidence buoyed Ripka’s worn-down spirits.
   “Time’s up.” The guard who’d let the men in opened the door and stood
glowering at them all, a false bluster that may have fooled a child, but
told the four in the room only one thing: the guard was tired, and
anxious, and resented her post. Ripka turned her head to hide an
instinctive smile.
   Hond Steading had no idea the force it harbored. She hoped, deeply, that
if its people knew then they might be grateful.
   Chapter Twenty-Five
   Detan found food in his room, a cold plate of hard cheese and crackers
left sometime in the morning. The sustenance wasn’t much, but he’d eaten
worse fare, and the solidness in his stomach was enough to spit some
vigor back into his veins.
   Best not to think about veins.
   A niggling itch had anchored itself in the crook of his elbow. Nothing
based in reality, he knew it was little more than his mind reminding him
of what it was missing. Still, hard to ignore a figment of your
imagination when it was working up real, physical distress. He caught a
glimpse of himself in the mirror and froze.
   Cursed skies, he was a mess. Passable for any working man of Aransa,
sure, but that was hardly the point. His hair, still wet from the
wash-water, slumped across his forehead, and though his clothes were
fine he’d put no care into wearing them. They hung untucked and loose,
rumpled and just as ragged as his face. He looked the part of a drunkard
and a wastrel, not a lord of high station. Certainly no fiance to
Thratia Ganal.
   And his image mattered now, make no mistake. He’d hardly enter into any
con game playing a nobleman in a state like this. Why was the simple
fact he was playing at being himself any different? Tibs would have
slapped him upside the head, to see him now. This was not how the game
was played. Loose and by ear, surely, but not sloppy. Never that.
   With renewed vigor he straightened his clothes and made close
acquaintance with a comb. Now he was ready. People were keen to let a
man in a crisp suit go wherever he wanted.
   Down on the dock, where so very much of his recent life had turned for
the worse, he paused for a quick reconnaissance. Aella’s ship, theCrested Fool, drifted lazily from its rope ties. The ship was a solid
transport vessel, but Thratia’s dock had been built for a grander ship,
for theLarkspur he had once stolen from her and handed into Pelkaia’s
care. TheCrested Fool looked like a child’s toy in comparison. It
just so happened that this particular toy belonged to one demented
child.
   No guards made their presence known on the dock. In fact, the place was
practically deserted. Detan huffed and tugged his freshly ironed lapels.
All that work to prepare himself, and he didn’t even have a keen-eyed
servant to charm his way past. Such a waste of his brilliance.
   As he jogged up the gangplank, it occurred to him that someone had gone
to a great deal of trouble to make it look as if this ship was of no
consequence.
   “Ahoy!” he called, pausing while his voice echoed throughout the
apparently empty ship. No response. Not even a board creaked under his
boot to welcome him. He eyed the ship from keel to bowsprit, recalling
what little he’d had access to during the long transit from the Remnant
to Aransa.
   Aella had kept him cooped up in his cabin at the aft end of the ship,
allowing him time to roam the deck but otherwise corralling him to his
room and her laboratory. Both rooms were in the ship’s aft. And though
Aella’d never struck him as a particularly reasonable girl, it did make
sense that she’d cloister those things which she did not want him
stumbling across toward the fore.
   He shoved his hands in his pocket and affected a merry saunter so that
anyone who happened across him would think him out for a stroll, not a
snoop. TheCrested Fool stretched long and flat, looking more like the
worn leather of an old shoe than an airship. Its buoyancy sacks were
practical things, a careful network of sewn and waxed leather held snug
under a knotted net of flax rope. All of the cabins were clustered in
the center of the ship, a smaller mirror of the vessel’s overall shape.
Some stroke of genius had inspired the maker to be certain the buoyancy
sacks kept the cabins in their shade for most of the day, shielding
weary travelers from the harsh desert sun.
   A cute little ship, purpose built for hauling people, but not a ship
he’d ever want to steal. Pity, that. He was itching for a good heist.
   Casting a glance around to make sure he was still alone, Detan strolled
along the cabin building, testing doors until he found one unlocked. The
hall was dark, the lanterns shuttered tight, but not yet coated in dust.
Detan frowned at the nearest lantern, grabbing it from its loop. They
hadn’t been in Aransa long, but dust was quick to settle in this city,
and someone had gone to a whole lot of trouble to make it look like this
ship was being neglected. Certainly the servants weren’t popping on
board to give it the occasional dusting. Someone used this lantern –
recently, and regularly. But whoever that was, they hadn’t been kind
enough to leave behind a flint.
   He glared at the cold wick and gave the lantern a shake, just to hear
the oil slosh in its base. He didn’t dare go back to his room, or leave
the ship to trouble a servant for a flint. No one knew he was here, and
every chance he took had to offer a really fucking great payoff to be
worth it.
   But with the door shut behind him, as it must be to hide his presence,
the hall was pitch black. He glared at the hall, glared at the lamp.
Neither obliged him with a solution.
   He wasn’t carrying a flint, but the selium Aella had given him to
practice with was still tucked into his pocket, returned there on a whim
after he’d washed and changed. Aella’d worked him until his senses were
numb, but still… He had been practicing, and improving, hadn’t he? And
what good was all this work, all this pain and sacrifice, if he could
not use the things he’d learned to further his own goals?
   He was not stressed. Not angry. No one was about to watch him struggle
at his work. The shadows certainly wouldn’t judge him. Before he’d
consciously made his decision, he breathed out, long and slow, forcing
some of the tension out of his muscles.
   The selium bladder was no bigger than the palm of his hand. The kind of
thing rich families used to send strips of painted paper into the sky at
celebrations. He extended his senses even as he whisked off the cap,
holding the selium in the bladder against its will to rise. He sectioned
off the tiniest fragment he could imagine and still control, a sliver no
larger than his pinky nail, and floated it free before clamping the cap
back on.
   Easy, now. With deliberate movements he slipped the bladder back into
his pocket and let awareness of it fade from his mind. For just a breath
his senses threatened to extend to the mass of selium hidden in the
ship’s buoyancy sacks above, but his long practice with Aella allowed
him to shunt the greater mass away and focus on the smaller sliver.
   It came so simply to him he almost shouted with triumph, but the surge
of pride threatened to overwhelm his control. Easy, he reminded himself.
Smooth and focused.
   Measuring his breathing, he steadied himself. He’d trained for this so
many times, been taunted by Aella every time he failed. Now, on his own,
when he truly needed his power, it would not fail him. He would not
allow it. Fingers calm as stone, he flicked open a pane of glass on the
lantern and crouched to set it on the floor just in front of him. He
stayed in that crouch, sweat seeping through the back of his shirt, but
ignored the dual exertion of mind and body.
   His senses screamed for finer control still. Never before had he been so
keenly aware that his senses were deadened to the reality around him,
never before had he felt the ache of that loss. Callia’s injection, and
later Aella’s, had opened up a world to him that he had never even
imagined might be real. Coss’s world. A world suffused with selium on
every level, so small as to be invisible to the naked eye.
   Skies, but he missed that extension of his power. Curse Aella and her
games– for that’s what they were. The girl played cool-hearted, she
even had keen-eyed Misol fooled, but Detan noted the subtle pleasure she
took in fencing with him, and winning. No body numb of heart would
bother with such an endeavor. No matter what Aella thought about
herself, or tried to present herself as, that girl could feel, deep
down. Maybe not as strongly as the rest of the world, but without
motivation driven by emotion she would have been an automaton long ago,
a husk bowing to whatever Callia ordered of her.
   Instead, the girl had poisoned Callia into helplessness, stolen her and
her subjects away to serve under Thratia, and usurped her position as
researcher of deviant sensitives. What that had to say about Aella’s
emotional core… well. Detan knew he’d be well to never trifle with that
young lady. Their verbal fencing aside, to truly raise Aella’s ire would
be a death sentence – no, not that. She’d find something worse for him
than death. He’d never claim she wasn’t creative.
   He shuddered and snapped back to himself. Focus, it seemed, would
forever be his greatest obstacle. That, and controlling the flow of his
rage.
   He reached for his anger. It leapt to him, ready as always, a stoked bed
of coals deep in his chest hungry for outlet. Even in his most serene of
moments he’d known it was there, hiding beneath his flesh, lurking in
the shadowed corners of his mind. He liked to think he was not a hateful
man. Liked to think that his desire to do good with his skillset was
proof enough that his anger was not his master.
   But he could never get away from it. No matter how powerfully Aella made
him focus, or meditate, his mind was never truly empty. He could not
change the manner in which his deviant power affected selium, no matter
how much she hoped otherwise. He could move it, shape it, and urge it to
tear itself to shreds.
   He wondered if that meant that he secretly wanted to tear himself to
shreds, too.
   But that line of thought was not helpful now. One task. He’d set himself
one simple job – find Clink and Forge and engender their help. Aella’s
lessons yoked his every thought, but he could not allow them to master
his every movement.
   He was stalling. Avoiding applying his carefully measured anger into the
little sliver of sel that he had, without conscious thought, floated
over to rest on the wick in the lantern. It shimmered there, its
pearlescent structure evident even in such a small amount, taunting him.
A flame that shone but cast no light.
   Aella had taught him the benefit of physical movement, a mirror of his
intention, and so he visualized himself snapping his fingers to ignite
the small globule and then, giving himself no more time to worry nor
secondguess his ability, made the movement in truth.
   Snap. Anger. Shut it down.
   The speck of selium tore itself apart, and with a mutedwhoosh lit the
wicked-up lantern into life.
   He jumped to his feet and pumped the air with a fist, very nearly
knocking the lantern over in the process. He bit his lips to stifle a
cry of triumph. Such a simple thing, that tiny flame, but that thing
existed at the very edge of his control. It’d been harder for him to
light that wick than it’d be to blow the bulk of selium floating the
ship. Or, at the very edge of his sphere of awareness, the massive
firemount that loomed near Aransa, and all the secret pockets of selium
bubbling within.
   That froze him in his celebration. At the moment he’d reached for the
sliver, his awareness had expanded, wider than it ever had. Standing
here, toward the peak of the mountain that housed Aransa, he could feel
all the small and large pockets of selium hidden beneath the solid stone
of the firemount a half-day’s walk away. In all the time he’d spent in
this city in the past, never before had he been able to reach so far
with such accuracy.
   The thought chilled him to the core, snuffing the sparks of his victory.
   Never mind that. Focus on finding the girls.
   The lantern cast sharp shadows as he scooped it up and sauntered down
the hall, testing every door handle he passed. Locked, all of them. But
he wasn’t here to snoop behind locked doors. He was here to find two
trapped women. Each handle he made sure to jiggle, until at the fifth
down the line an irritated voice called, “It’s locked, you moron. You
locked it your damn self.”
   Detan grinned, recognizing the exasperated tone.“That you, Clink?”
   Shuffling behind the door, then a soft thump as someone clunked their
forehead against the wood trying to get a good look through the crack
between door and jamb.“Well I’ll be fucked, it’s the Honding. Come to
threaten to blow us up again?”
   The lantern in his hand felt a little heavier.“I had no say in that.
And, hey, I picked the right pouch, didn’t I?”
   “Our hero,” Clink drawled. “The creepy little witch with you?”
   Detan caught himself grinning at the blank face of the door like the
madman he probably was. He could see why these two had gotten along well
with Ripka.“It’s just me.”
   “And a lockpick, I hope.”
   “Uh, about that…”
   A soft groan, then Forge said,“I told you he was a coward.”
   “Hey, I’m not saying it won’t happen, I’m saying it’s not the right
time.” He scowled at the door, wishing he could see their faces, wishing
he could show them his face, and all the well-practiced expressions of
assurance he could dance across it to help convince them.
   “Talk to us when you got a plan, soft man,” Clink said. Forge didn’t
bother hiding her laughter.
   “That’s what I’m here for.” He threw an enigmatic smile at the door,
then rolled his eyes at his own showboating. Tibs would have pissed
himself laughing at that little move.
   “Cute. More talk, less dancing.”
   He bit his tongue to stifle a quip and cut to the meat of the matter.“I
want to set you free.”
   “Funny you should forget the lockpick, then.”
   He grimaced and thumped his forehead against the door, letting them hear
it.“I told you, I can’t manage that just yet. It’s too dangerous.
You’re in the heart of Thratia Ganal’s compound, in Aransa. Did you know
that?”
   A pause, then Forge spoke,“No, we didn’t. We haven’t seen the sun since
Aella dragged us aboard this ship, and frankly we’re starting to think
we’re going to die before we get to see it again. I understand she’s
keeping us on hand to keep you in line, but she forgets us sometimes. No
food last night, and this morning she didn’t even mention it when she
brought our rations. We had more freedom on the Remnant.”
   “Fiery pits, I had no idea she’d forgotten about you.”
   “Really,” Clink drawled. “And we were fresh on your mind, were we?”
   That hit the mark so soundly he nearly dropped his lantern. Figured
Ripka would ally herself with women clever enough to see right through
to the core of him.“I can apologize all night, but that won’t help you.
What I can do, is promise you this. We’re moving to Hond Steading soon –
I don’t know when. A week, probably. In the meantime I can work on
Aella, make sure as the skies are blue that you both get moved there
with us. Hond Steading’smy city, I… I can help you better there. Send
you to ground in a safe place, to escape the chains that bind you here.”
   A soft snort, then a murmuring of voices as the women conferred. Forge
said,“And what do you want in return?”
   “I never said–”
   “Didn’t have to, Honding. Cut the goatshit. You need something from us,
something in Hond Steading. What is it?”
   He flushed, embarrassed they’d seen through him so easily. “You in
particular, Forge. I will have need of your special talents.”
   “And if I help you, that will see both Clink and I free?”
   “You have my word.”
   “Fat lot of good that does us, but I suppose we don’t exactly have a
better offer at the moment.”
   “Freedom in Hond Steading, a stipend to see you well established, and,
if my guesses are correct, a possible reunion with your other friend
that escaped with Ripka – Honey, I believe you told me her name was.”
   Silence, then,“We like her well enough when she’s chained. Not sure the
girl’s worth the risk when she’s loosed. But we’ll take your offer,
Honding. Pity we can’t shake on it.”
   “I’ll make sure your meals are remembered. Take care.”
   “Don’t get killed before you can spring us,” Forge said.
   He grinned, and rapped twice on the door in affirmation before taking
off back down the hall. It seemed a pity to snuff the lantern after he’d
gone to so much trouble to light it, but he couldn’t very well take it
with him. He blew the flame to death and hung the lantern, then stepped
back onto deck. The sun was high, just beginning to trail over the other
side of Thratia’s compound where it would eventually go to rest for the
night somewhere behind the firemount that was Aransa’s twin. He blinked
in the brightness, settling his vision, then strolled toward the
gangplank, circling around to the other side of the cabins.
   As soon as he turned the corner, he froze.
   Thratia stood on the dock, a small entourage of very armed men and women
at her side, deck hands scurrying about the opposite side of the u-dock
in an effort to make those ties ready. She spotted him there, cocked her
head in mild curiosity, but seemed otherwise uninterested in his
presence. TheCrested Fool was Aella’s ship, after all, and its
contents were the girl’s business. Detan wondered if Aella had ever
bothered mentioning Clink and Forge to Thratia. By the bored expression
on the woman’s face, he doubted it. There was no irritation in her
posture, no tension that he might have stumbled across something he
wasn’t meant to find. Thratia was not at all interested in Detan’s
presence on theCrested. She was, in fact, staring straight over his
shoulder.
   With a sinking feeling in his gut Detan turned, slowly. A ship larger
than any he’d ever seen blotted what was left of the fading light, a
massive bulk of wood and sail headed by a sharp, cutting prow. The mere
proximity of all that selium made Detan’s skin itch. It loomed toward
the dock, slow and steady, aiming right for the space alongside theCrested Fool.
   Detan scurried off the smaller ship before the larger could close the
distance. He’d never been keen on trusting his safety to the piloting
skills of others. Thratia acknowledged his presence with a distracted
nod, her gaze stuck on that hulking mass. He sidled up to her, daring to
take the place at her right side, and asked, “What in the pits is that
thing?”
   She shot him a fierce grin.“That is my new flagship, and our transport
to Hond Steading.”
   It drifted closer, the voices of the dock hands rising in panic as they
scrambled to make ready for the leviathan’s arrival. Detan’s throat grew
dry, his stomach heavy, as he began to make out the fine detail on the
ship’s deck. Massive harpoons dotted the rails, and structures the likes
of which he’d never seen before adorned the silk-smooth deck. Whoever
the ship’s captain was, they were a deft hand, for they sailed the ship
with firm and steady grace. Detan swallowed to regain his voice.
   “When do we leave?”
   “Two days,” Thratia said, and there was more passion in her eyes as she
looked upon that ship than he had seen all through the night spent in
her bed.
   Chapter Twenty-Six
   The streets of Aransa baked in the heat, but there was no temperature
save the killing field of the Black Wash that could ever make Detan feel
clean again. He moved with purpose, letting the fancy clothes Thratia’d
dressed him in cut a swathe through the city’s crowds, and tried, very
hard, to ignore the sting of his raw skin beneath those shiny, shiny
clothes.
   Two nights now. Two nights in Thratia Ganal’s bed, and there was no
scrub-brush in the world that could strip the scent of her from his
memory. Nothing in the world that could undo the betrayal of his body,
responding to her need though it turned his stomach.
   He couldn’t think on it. Not too long, anyway. Every time the memory
threatened to surface it slid away into some black pit in his mind,
leaving him unsettled and restless but, at the very least, capable of
functioning.
   Even his memories of his time in the Bone Tower were clearer.
   His destination loomed into view, shaking him back into himself. The
thing about mercers, even the wealthiest of the bunch, was that they all
had the same boring sense of style. Grandon’s offices were located in a
squat, squared-off building topped with a roof of dark-stained wood.
Expensive stuff, that wood, but he figured Grandon could probably afford
it. Pits, he’d probably be able to afford another one after the order
Detan was prepared to place.
   Grandon’s lobby sported a prim little receptionist hard at work under a
massive mural of the Grandon family crest. She whipped her head up from
the file she’d been prodding at as Detan entered, and plastered on a
smile quick enough that he almost believed it was real.
   “Welcome to the Grandon Trading House. Do you have an appointment?”
   He sauntered forward, making a show of pulling his crimson-lined collar
straight, and leaned one arm on the woman’s desk.
   “Not an appointment, exactly. Renold and I are old friends, I’m sure he
can squeeze a little time in for me.”
   She lifted a brow like she’d found something suspicious on the bottom of
her shoe. “Then you know that Mercer Grandon is very busy. Is there a
general question I can assist you with?”
   Right. In his long experience, it was easier to worm one’s way past a
guard than a sharp-eyed receptionist. He hadn’t meant to play this
completely straight, it just wasn’t in his nature to stick to a single
path, but there was only one thing that could get him past those
narrowed eyes without her ringing for the watch to escort him out.
   “I’m prepared to place a large purchase, and need to consult with Renold
directly regarding delivery times.”
   In one deft movement she plucked a ledger from under her desk and
flicked it open to the appropriate page.“In that case, sir, I would be
happy to set you an appointment for a future date with Mercer Grandon,
or perhaps one of his junior salesmen. Are you free on the third of this
week?”
   He rubbed his temples as if fighting back a tension headache.“I leave
tomorrow, and skies willing won’t be back to this city in my lifetime.
My old pal Renold would be very, very upset to hear he’d lost this
opportunity, miss. And I will inform him – letters don’t need
appointments, after all.”
   She pursed her lips and snapped the ledger shut.“I see. I will inquire
about his availability directly, then. Who should I say is calling?”
   “Detan Honding.”
   She paled, and he felt like a bigger rockbrain than usual. Figured she’d
have heard of him – most of the city had, by now. Thratia’d made sure of
that. He could have skipped that whole song and dance and just cut
straight to who he was, and what he wanted, and no doubt she would have
seen him straight to Grandon’s door. Now she had to keep up appearances
by asking the man, and Detan feared Renold’s surly streak just might see
him kicked out the door. Served him right, forgetting his name was just
as deft a tool as any other he had up his sleeves.
   “A moment, Master Honding.”
   She disappeared down a hallway, heels click-clacking on the hardwood
floor, and it didn’t take her long at all to come click-clacking back, a
little furrow between her brows that Detan couldn’t quite read.
   “He will see you now.”
   Grandon’s office was a study in sand and glass. The wall behind him was
pockmarked with hexagonal windows, a high shelf encircling the whole
room crowded with vials of all the various sands of the Scorched. Detan
had never taken the man for being particularly interested in the geology
of the region, butthen, he hadn’t really thought much about what
Grandon may or may not like. Save, of course, that he liked his food and
his women and couldn’t give two shits for anyone serving him.
   “You,” Grandon said, splaying both his hands on the chunk of wood that
was his desk, “better have a very good reason for coming here.”
   “Why thank you, I will take a seat. Your hospitality is always so
refreshing, Grandon old pal.” Detan sauntered forward and flopped into
the chair across from Grandon’s desk, leaning back to kick an ankle up
on his knee. He tapped his fingers on the arm of the chair, flicking his
gaze around the room. “I’d ask you who your decorator is, but I suspect
I’m looking at the man himself, am I right?”
   “You have until the count of ten.”
   “Now, now, aren’t you going to offer me a drink?”
   “One. Two.”
   Detan threw his palms up to forestall the count.“All right, all right.
Always in such a rush, you mercers are. Time is money, and all that.”
Damn his tongue. He was stalling, and he hadn’t even meant to. He was
just loath to speak the words he needed to get his point across. “You
may have heard of my impending nuptials?”
   Grandon’s face went slack. “Everyone has heard.”
   “Marvelous,” he lied, and clapped with pretend joy to cover the sour
note in his voice. “Then I’m sure you can help me. I wish to purchase a
large quantity of your liqueur for the happy day. A gift to my bride and
our guests, to remind her of old times.”
   The mercer’s fingers curled slowly to fists atop the desk. “You may
remember that the local supply of honey was severely depleted after… the
accident at the Hub.”
   “Certainly a little explosion wasn’t enough to undermine your entire
enterprise, Grandon. This place of yours,” Detan gestured to the finery
all around them, “isn’t suffering from the lack.”
   “True. My business survived your little fit. But the liqueur has become
a dear thing, rare and precious. A top shelf varietal hardly seen
outside this city. Steel, you’ll find, is the bulk of my business now.
Pre-sharpened, of course.”
   Ah. So Thratia no longer saw a point in hiding her weapons beneath
crates of other goods. Figured.“But you do still sell the stuff?”
   “For a price.”
   A price to make even the richest selium trader blush, he had no doubt.
This wasn’t just about the scarcity of honey in Aransa. Grandon was
punishing him. Funny thing was, the abuse gave him a fleeting sense of
relief. “I’m prepared to pay.”
   “Nothing counterfeit, I assume?”
   He smiled and flicked lint from the cuff of his pant leg.“Do you think
me a pauper, Grandon? I have the routing cipher to the Honding coffers.
Any counting house in this city will confirm them.”
   Grandon raised both brows, greed overriding his anger.“You’re prepared
to pay so much for a gift?”
   “For my darling wife? Nothing but the best.”
   “Well then.” He leaned forward, dragged a ledger open and dipped a pen
into his inkwell. “Let’s talk logistics.”
   Chapter Twenty-Seven
   The guards, it seemed, just weren’t going to cooperate. When daybreak
streamed through the tiny, most assuredly locked, window in their room,
the guards knocked heavily on their door before barging in. Bleary-eyed
and irritated, Ripka dragged herself to a seat in her bed, blinking back
sleep. Honey sat awake in the bed next to her, gaze surprisingly sharp
despite the early hour and late night. Probably a habit she’d picked up
at the Remnant. Ripka hadn’t been locked in that place long enough to
develop the same talent.
   “Don’t you sleep?” she muttered at the guards who’d barged in, but they
scarcely even glanced her way. Maids of the hotel brought in trays of
porridge, fried eggs, and garden herbs, along with two tiny spoons, and
scurried back out into the hall. Ripka watched all of this, dumbstruck.
She’d been hoping for a communal breakfast with the boys, not a few
trays delivered before she’d even had a chance to braid her hair.
   The guard was beginning to close the door, the maids safely back in the
hall.
   “I have to use the privy,” she blurted, which was true enough, but she
wanted to stop the rush of events, to have a moment to get her head on
straight and possibly come up with a way to exploit their breakfast. The
guard, a woman with a permanent scowl on her lips, sighed heavily and
jerked herhead toward the hall.
   “One at a time, no dallying.”
   Ripka hurried to her feet, and nearly lost control of her legs as the
sore muscles screamed in protest the moment she put weight on them.
Honey shot out a hand to steady her, and she took a moment to gather
herself while the guard huffed in annoyance. Ripka shot her a sour look.
Such impatience would never have been tolerated in her watchers.
   They were shuffled, one at a time, to a small water closet stuffed at
the back of the floor’s hall. Before Ripka could formulate anything like
a plan, she found herself standing back in her room, the door locked
firmly behind her, her nightshift too thin against the morning cold and
her hair all a tangle.
   “Well,” she said, scowling at the food that’d been left for them. “That
was disappointing.”
   Honey shrugged, stuffing her mouth so full with greasy eggs that her
cheeks bulged. At least someone had the foresight to provide some
soothing tea for the poor woman’s throat.
   “Eat,” Honey muttered around a mouthful, arresting Ripka in a circle she
hadn’t even realized she was pacing.
   “Ugh.” Ripka flopped to the floor, cross-legged before her tray, and
grabbed one of the crusty slices of bread. She knew she’d need her
strength, but she was so irritated with the situation it was difficult
to muster up an appetite. Yet, as soon as the bread touched her tongue,
her stomach grumbled with anticipation. Honey giggled.
   “All right, all right, you win,” Ripka said around a smile and a hunk of
bread. Sweet skies, but she hadn’t realized how long it’d been since
she’d eaten anything. The previous night seemed ages ago.
   “What are we going to do?” she muttered around a mouthful. Honey
shrugged and pushed a piece of cheese from her plate to Ripka’s. It
hadn’t been a real question, anyway. She was thinking out loud, keeping
her voice low so the guards wouldn’t overhear.
   “Two guards in the hall at all times, it seems. One for each room. I got
a look at the building as we walked up last night, and I think the guys’
room is the mirror of ours. So they’ve got a small window, too, but even
if the guards wouldn’t hear us breaking the glass we’d all be shreddedto bits by the time we squeezed through that little hole, and then
there’s the climb down to deal with, and the walls looked pretty
smooth.”
   “Privy,” Honey prompted.
   “No good. They’re keeping us stuck on this floor, though skies know how
that trick of plumbing is being handled. And the window there is open,
no glass to let the air in, but just about as wide as my forearm. Even
if we could squeeze through, I doubt Enard and Tibal would make it, and
there’sno way the guards would allow us to enter the privy one by one,
each one vanishing just before the next. No. The privy’s out.”
   “Fight?” Honey’s gaze had locked on the spoon in her hand. Ripka had
seen the shiv Honey could carve from a wooden spoon. She’d hate to see
what damage the woman could cause with a metal one.
   Ripka winced.“I’d rather not harm the guards. They’re just doing their
jobs, and not badly. And there’s no telling the positions of the other
guards. We only know for sure that there are two in the hall – that
might be all we have to worry about, or the other four could be
patrolling the building, or waiting for us downstairs. Too risky.”
   “Sick?”
   “Now there’s a thought. Enard has some apothik training, just the usual
first aid variety, but so do I, and they’d know that well enough as
they’re all aware I was a watch-captain. I bet Tibal could fake an
illness, but what we’d really need is an injury – something bloody
enough to freak them out and send them into a panic. Make themrun for
an apothik without realizing they’ve split their numbers. Then we’d be
two-to-four, or maybe three-to-four, and have surprise on our side. I’d
prefer if they didn’t notice we were gone for a while, but that’s not
looking likely now… Hmm. Yeah, that could work, but how to fake the
injury? You got any sauce on that platethat looks red enough?”
   “No,” Honey said, and stabbed herself in the thigh with the curved end
of her spoon.
   “Fuck!”
   The tray of food flipped and scattered across the floor as Ripka lunged
to her feet. Hot blood pumped down the woman’s thigh, bare below her
nightshift, and pooled on the rug. Bubbles of blood popped, making a
little gurgling sound, around the half-embedded shovel of the spoon, but
the flow wasn’t strong enough to indicate an arterial strike.
   “What the everloving fuck.” Ripka grabbed a napkin from the spilled tray
and shoved it against Honey’s wound, trying to staunch the flow. It
didn’t help much. They needed to get that spoon out of her, and the
wound cleaned and packed with wool and salve before they could stitch it
and bind it, and then –
   Honey closed her hand over Ripka’s. “Better call the guards.”
   There wasn’t the slightest tremor of pain in her voice, no beads of
sweat-shock marred her brow. The crazy woman was just as calm as she’d
been a moment before, throwing out ideas to spark Ripka’s imagination.
Honey popped a greasy piece of bread in her mouth and chewed, slowly.
   “You’re insane, you know that?”
   Honey shrugged, though her smile was embarrassed.
   No time to admonish the woman. She’d gone ahead and carved an
opportunity for them all out of her own flesh, and it was up to Ripka to
make the most of it. She scrambled to her feet and looked around. Honey
kept on nibbling at her breakfast, calm as could be, the pool of blood
spreading steadily around her, but not at a life-threatening rate.
   They’d both been wearing plain linen nightshifts, and the bright blood
looked rather dramatic against the beige cloth. Ripka tore long strips
from one of the blankets and stashed them on the other side of the bed,
where the guards would be slow to notice them. With the bloodied napkin
clutched in onefist, she took a breath, worked up a false hysteria, and
flung herself at the door, pounding with both fists.
   “Help! Help! She’s bleeding out!”
   Curses in the hall, the tromp of boots and the rattle of the key in the
lock. The door jerked open and Ripka stumbled back from the guard
pushing toward her, but not too quickly. She wanted the guard, the same
woman who’d overseen their breakfast delivery, to get a good long look
at Ripka’s blood-smattered clothes, and the dripping rag she held.
   “What in the skies?”
   “It’s Honey!” Ripka yelled straight into the woman’s face, working up a
good tremble to add to the disturbance. The guard pushed Ripka aside and
her eyes widened at the sight of Honey who had, thankfully, stopped
calmly eating her breakfast.
   “Ow,” Honey said.
   “Pitshit.” The guard ducked back out into the hall and called at the top
of her lungs, “Apothik!”
   “Get Tibal!” Ripka snapped. “He was in the Fleet, he has first aid
training!”
   The guard didn’t even blink. She thrust a finger at the guard manning
the door to the boys’ room. “Get those men over here. We’ve got an
injury.”
   “What in the pits happened?” The other guard jangled his keys as he
struggled to get the door open.
   “Fucked if I know.”
   “I fell,” Honey said. Ripka thanked the skies that her voice was too
soft, and the guards too frazzled, for them to have heard her
half-hearted explanation.
   To keep from being noticed, Ripka hung back as the guards ushered Tibal
and Enard, still in their bedclothes, blinking into the women’s room.
They did not stay confused for long. Tibal caught sight of Honey seeping
blood, her hand half-heartedly clasped against the wound, and sucked air
through his teeth so fast he whistled.
   Enard, however, went pale as a sheet the second he spied Ripka huddling
between the two beds, her nightshift a mess of blood. He regained his
composure in a breath, crossed to her side and took her by the
shoulders, holding her at arm’s length to get a look at the damage.
   “Are you hurt?”
   “None of this is mine.”
   He cringed at the implication, sparing a glance back over his shoulder
to Honey. She’d taken up humming softly under her breath while Tibal
tried to figure out the best way to extract the spoon from her leg.
   “What in the pits happened here?”
   Ripka slid her gaze slowly, pointedly, to the pile of sliced rags on the
floor alongside the bed. Enard nodded.
   “This looks bad,” Tibal said, infusing his voice with gravelly
seriousness. “Don’t one of you guards have any serious medical
experience?”
   The woman said,“Eshon does–”
   “But it’s just the two of us today!” the male guard snapped. “Bitter
pits, I told them we should stay four on rotation at all times, but no,
and now look what’s happened!”
   Enard and Ripka locked gazes, understanding passing between them in an
instant. Just two guards today. Two very flustered guards. They shared a
grin.
   Then lunged.
   Ripka was over the bed in a heartbeat, shouldering the door to slam it
closed. The guards shouted– the words didn’t matter. The man, who’d
been nearest the door, grabbed Ripka’s shoulder, jerking her back so
hard she lost her footing. No time to be neat about things. She stumbled
into him and took the opportunity to jam her elbow, hard as she could,
straight into the man’s ribs. He woofed air and doubled over.
   She gave him no quarter. Clutching his wrist, she wrenched his arm
around behind his back and turned with the movement so that she stood
behind him, yanking up on that twisted arm as hard as she could. He
lurched, his back slamming into her chest, and in that moment she felt
him draw breath to cry out. There were no other guards about, but there
were certainly enough civilians in the hotel to run and call for help
from the local watch.
   They needed time. Time they wouldn’t get if he got that shout out.
   She struck him on the back of the head with the heel of her palm, felt
his jaw snap closed and heard his teeth jar and clatter against each
other. He gurgled a yelp, and before he could orient himself and try to
pull away she stepped backward, overbalanced him, and spun, throwing him
face-first onto the bed.
   Blood smeared the sheets where his face connected. He bucked, trying to
fling her off, but her legs were longer than his and she had them
planted firmly while he was bent over, booted toes just barely dragging
on the ground. With his face shoved in the blankets, she had control.
She glanced up to see Tibal and Enard scuffling with the female guard.
Enard pinned her arms back while Tibal tried to get a strip of cloth
around her mouth as a gag.
   “Keep them silent,” Ripka ordered, and though she didn’t raise her voice
it was whip-strong with the snap of command. Pits below, but that felt
good.
   Enard and Tibal wrestled the woman to the ground and got her tied off
properly, then hurried over to help Ripka with her thrashing charge.
With their help, it took no time at all to get the guard hog-tied,
gagged, and blindfolded.
   “Now?” Enard asked.
   Tibal strolled back over to Honey’s side and made quick, easy work of
removing the spoon and tying off the wound with a few leftover scraps of
cut-up sheet. “Got a place to go to ground?”
   “Yes,” Ripka said, unwilling to elaborate while the guards were within
earshot.
   “Right. Lass is good to walk, but you’ll be hurting a bit, won’t you,
dear?” He helped Honey to her feet and she shifted her weight over to
her injured leg experimentally. Her grimace was all the answer any of
them needed.
   “I’ll carry her,” Enard said, “she’s light enough.”
   “Good man.” Tibal stroked his chin, eyeing both women. “New Chum and I
can stroll out of here without raising any eyebrows, but you two look a
mess.”
   Ripka flicked the bloodied hem of her nightshift.“I doubt either of you
could walk out of here. They saw us all walk in, remember? And who knows
who’s on staff this morning. We’ll need to harness the same confusion –
use the shock of the blood to our advantage.”
   “The uniforms?”
   “Perfect.”
   It wasn’t easy going, stripping the guards of their uniform jackets, but
between the four of them – and a carefully applied knife by Honey to
gain compliance – they managed to get all the coats clear without
letting either of the guards get too close to escape.
   “Sorry about this,” Ripka said as she peeled the sleeve off the last of
them. The sharp edge to the woman’s muffled voice told her all she
needed to know to understand her apology was most certainly not
accepted.
   “You boys,” she chucked the coat to Enard, as Tibal was already donning
the man’s jacket. “Make a good show of things, eh?”
   Tibal and Enard shared a grin, and went to work.
   They burst down the stairs of the hotel, Tibal dragging Ripka by falsely
bound wrists. Her blood-spattered nightshift stuck to the tops of her
thighs as she snarled and twisted, making the best show she could of
trying to break free of Tibal’s hold while he swore under his breath and
dragged her along. Her bare feet skidded on the floor, and she was glad
the hotel went to the trouble of keeping it swept clean. She was even
gladder to know that underneath Tibal’s coat was a sack of the woman’s
clean clothes.
   “Make way!” Tibal barked.
   Patrons screamed, swore, and generally made a mess of things as they
leapt from tables and scurried to the sides of the room, cleaving a wide
path down the center of the hotel’s common room.
   “What is the meaning of this?” A woman with finer clothes than the
regular barmaids stalked toward them. She caught sight of Ripka’s
bloodied clothes, hesitated a step, then pushed herself forward.
Respectable, if irritating, woman.
   “Got a fight on our hands,” Tibal snapped, holding his head to the side
and keeping his hat tucked down. “Move off now, injured girl coming.”
   The woman stepped to the side, peering up the stairs.“Injured? Shall I
send a runner for the apothik?”
   “A runner!” Tibal spun on her, yanking Ripka’s wrists as he did so.
“This woman is bleeding, ma’am, she’d be bone dry by the time your
runner got there and back. We’ll take her ourselves, it’s faster. But
mark me, don’t you dare touch a thing in those rooms upstairs. The two
remaining prisoners are restrained, but that’s an active crime scene!
Touch nothing until after the watch arrives to begin their
investigation, and then only after they have told you it’s all right to
do so. Do you understand?”
   “Ye – yes? You’re leaving, with prisoners still locked up here?”
   “They’re contained, I swear it. Touch. Nothing. Now move!”
   Their patroness paled and scurried away as Enard stomped down the
stairs. He carried Honey in his arms easily. For all that muscle, the
woman was surprisingly light. As he strode into the common room gasps
sounded all around, every last eye glued to the figure being carried,
not to the man carrying her. If they were lucky, no one would realize
the two guards who had checked in were a man and a woman, not two men,
until they were well away.
   Honey mustered up a little groan so pitiful Ripka wondered if the pain
was finally starting to get to her. Enard didn’t hesitate a breath. He
strode right past Tibal, hustling as if the woman’s life depended on it,
and kicked the door of the hotel open into the brilliance of the day.
   The street in front of the hotel was lightly trafficked, and every eye
that landed on them was quickly averted. The black cloak of the Honding
family’s private guard was enough to grant them some degree of
anonymity. No one would look too hard at a Honding guard, and they
certainly wouldn’t stop to question one.
   Still, as they progressed through the neighborhood, Honey whispering
subtle directions into Enard’s ear as he held her, Ripka’s skin began to
itch with the attention they were drawing. A palace guard may be
untouchable, but the presence of two in the city was something to remark
upon. And two of them escorting two bloodied women even more so. She
imagined rumors spreading outward from their position like wildfire, and
shivered.
   “This can’t hold,” she whispered to Tibal.
   He nodded, grim-faced. Probably he’d realized that from the second they
stepped into the street, maybe even before. This type of game was his
speciality, after all.
   “We’ll find a quiet place to adjust in,” he said, then coughed subtly to
alert Enard to fall back to his side.
   They abandoned the path toward Latia’s house, winding though it was, and
decided to veer in the opposite direction, lest the rumor of their
presence eventually lead their future pursuers to Latia’s doorstep. At
the first sight of a narrow alley free of windows and nearby
pedestrians, they ducked down the shadowed street, and tooka moment to
catch their breaths.
   Ripka and Honey changed as best they could, covering their nightshifts
in long, thin robes that they’d found in the hotel chests. They didn’t
look like proper day clothes, but they covered the blood well enough,
and neither one of them had anything to wash with.
   “The jackets?” Enard asked.
   “Ditch them,” Ripka said. “They draw more attention than we’d like.”
   “The four of us draw more attention than I’d like.” Tibal stripped off
his jacket and tossed it in a heap against the alley wall. The men, at
least, wore thin trousers and shirts, if not any shoes. Luckily going
barefoot was not an uncommon sight in Hond Steading – their streets were
smoothand free of firemount glass.
   “You’ve a point,” Enard said. “Especially with Honey’s injury and both
of your, ah, appearances. Forgive me.” He flushed.
   Ripka snort-laughed.“We’re a mess, it’s true. All right. Honey and I
know where we’re going, so we should split up with you boys. Honey,
Enard’s about your height, do you think you can walk if he gives you his
shoulder?”
   “That’s fine,” she said, poking at her leg absently.
   “Don’t overdo it.” Honey just looked at her, doe-eyed, so Ripka turned
to Enard and said, “See that she doesn’t overdo it.”
   He gave her a flimsy salute and offered his arm to Honey, who hobbled
over to accept it. Tibal watched her intently, no doubt understanding
that she’d split them this way to keep him by her side. She had no
reason to doubt Enard and Honey’s loyalty, but Tibal was another story.
Despite his recent interest in her plans, he could just as easily
disappear into the city right now.
   And if he did that, she knew deep down that she’d never see him again.
   “See you there,” Enard said, oblivious to the tension thickening between
her and Tibal. The pair shuffled their slow, painful way out into the
street.
   “Better give it a moment,” Tibal drawled. “Wouldn’t want anyone seeing
us come out right after.”
   “Right.”
   “Or you could tell me where we’re going, and it’ll look even less
suspicious, us waiting to leave one right after the other.”
   There it was. The challenge she’d felt was coming since he’d given her
that hard look while she bundled Honey off with Enard. She straightened
the lay of her robe’s tie. “Better if we stick together, in case of
trouble. Two sets of hands are better than one.”
   “You expecting trouble?”
   She held her arms out in a gesture that illustrated just how ridiculous
she currently looked.“You seen me lately? I’d half expect the watchers
to pick me up to evaluate my mental health if I were walking around
alone.”
   He snorted.“And if we get separated?”
   Well then. She didn’t have anything to answer to that, aside from the
fact that she feared that he’d fake separation just to get away from
her. But subterfuge was Detan’s game, and she was tired of being on
delicate footing with Tibal.
   “Would I ever see you again?”
   He blinked at her, real slow, the most surprised expression she’d ever
seen on his weathered face. Took him a moment to register she wasn’t
fencing with him any more: she’d laid the tension between them bare at
his feet and bade him have a long look. So he did, in his own mind,
tugging on his whiskery mustache with one hand while he thought. It
occurred to her then that he hadn’t shaved since the Remnant.
   “What’s for me, there?”
   “You know what,” she said, unable to hide her frustration. “I’m trying
to do right by this city. Trying to keep it from falling into the same
pit Aransa did. We have a chance here. We’re prepared. To walk away now…
I could never live with myself.” And I don’t think you could either,she
didn’t say, but the words stretched out between them anyway. Some things
didn’t need to be said to be clear as a spring rain.
   “City’s not my responsibility.”
   “Isn’t it, Tibal Honding?”
   His head snapped back, those dark eyes narrowing, and for just a moment
she thought she’d triggered his well-hidden temper. But no, that wasn’t
anger ghosting his features. That was pain, pure and simple. She’d hit
him. Hard.
   “That ain’t my name.”
   “The Dame seems to think it is.”
   “You think everything the Dame says is gospel?”
   “Convince me otherwise.”
   “Not my job to put your head on straight, and we don’t have time for
this nonsense.”
   “I’m making time. Talk, Tibal. What in the fiery pits is your relation
to the Dame?”
   “Why are you so damned desperate to know?”
   “Because you told me a story.” She stepped toward him. He stepped back.
“Don’t you remember? At Thratia’s party, you told me all about how you
and Detan met. How he stumbled across you, and you found common ground
in trying to control your tempers. You earned my respect with that
story, before I ever knew you. And I’m wondering now – how much of the
time we shared together was based on lies? If your tempers are mirrors,
then…” She let her gaze slide to the shadow of a firemount.
   “You think I got the power, too?” He yanked his hat off and slapped it
against his knee to clear the dust. “Woman, haven’t you been paying
attention? What Detan’s got is rare, I can’t shift sel any more than the
Dame can. And anyway.” He twisted the brim of his hat between his
fingers, picking at the singed spot that had been Detan’s doing.
   “What I told you was true.” He held up a hand to stop her asking more
questions. “I wouldn’t lie to you now, and I didn’t then. You want to
know what the Dame knows? Fine.” He blew air through his whiskers hard
enough to make them flutter.
   “Rew Honding is my father by blood, though I never met the man. Some
uncle of the Dame, old feller, but my ma liked him well enough for a
night and sent him along the next day. Didn’t know who he was at the
time, till the Dame came along collecting any information she could
about Honding bastards. Eletraia – that’s Detan’s mother – had just died
and the Dame wasn’t one for birthing her own heirs. Anyway, she made a
note of my existence and moved along, ma never heard from her again. But
I did.
   “She came by the settlement I’d ended up in after the Fleet had let me
go ‘cause the war with the Catari had gone cold. Ma was doing well
enough, running her tavern, and I didn’t have any taste for that work,
so I’d found an engineer to take me on repairing airships.
   “One day the Dame shows up, real quiet like. Came in on a small ship
with just a pilot and a single guard, a man named Gatai. You’ve seen him
around the palace as the keymaster, but I always suspected he was more
than that.”
   He tipped his head back, squinting at the sky as if he could see his
past painted in the clouds. Ripka held her breath to keep from peppering
him with questions. This was the most she’d ever heard him talk all at
once.
   “Anyway. She wasn’t dressed up fancy or anything, but I knew her, and
she looked bad. Real tired. Said her heir had been in some trouble,
maybe lost his sel-sense, and was rambling the Scorched a lost man. But
she’d been keeping tabs on him, and he was flying straight my way. Asked
me to keepan eye on him, help him pull himself together. That if she
were to lose him then I was the only one of the bloodline left, and it
had to be maintained. Was real animated about that. I told her to go
suck gravel. But…” He sighed and shook his head. “Detan showed up the
day after she left. I ain’t never seen a man so much the mirror to me
before. Never met a soul who understood… Shit.”
   He shoved his hat back on hard enough to cover half his forehead.“That’s what you wanted to know, anyway.”
   “I didn’t know,” she said, quietly, and reached out to touch his arm
lightly in comfort. He shook her off.
   “Now you do, and I don’t want to hear a damned thing about it again,
understood? This ain’t my city. Never going to be. I mean it, this city
ain’t my responsibility.”
   “Is your conscience your responsibility?”
   He pursed his lips, spit on the dry ground, and grated out the words,“Wherever it is you’re going, Leshe, I’ll be there.”
   Leshe. He never called her that. Captain, sometimes, and mostly Ripka.
But her last name… There was only one person she knew of he consistently
called by his family name, and it was, she thought, maybe the greatest
honor he could hand her.
   “See you there, then,” she said, and told him the way to Latia’s house –
how to mark it, by its shape and its color and its position against the
side of a firemount. Then she left him in the alley, stomach churning
with uncertainty, to begin the circuitous route to Latia’s.
   Leaving him there, not knowing for sure whether he’d come or not, was
the greatest leap of faith she’d yet taken in this city. She hoped they
both landed on their feet.
   Chapter Twenty-Eight
   Detan made a point of hiding in his room as theDread Wind approached
Hond Steading. He did not want to watch the city of his birth roll into
view. Did not want to stand at the prow alongside Thratia as he bore
witness to whatever defense the city he’d sworn to serve with his life
had mustered against her coming. Did not, most of all, want to see
familiar faces in those forces, and know that they believed him on the
other side of the line Thratia had carved into the whole of the
Scorched.
   Thratia, of course, had other plans.
   “Honding.” Misol’s voice boomed as she thumped the door to his cabin
with the butt of her spear. “Get your lazy ass out here.”
   “I’m airsick.” He made a few attempts at a retching sound. Misol just
laughed.
   “You can’t possibly expect me to believe that.”
   “Food poisoning?”
   “Naw.”
   “Moral quandary heavy enough to progress to physical illness?”
   “Not a chance.”
   Figured. Detan grunted as he pushed himself to his feet, taking a moment
that he told himself wasn’t stalling to rub the ache from his knees.
That ache was getting more and more frequent, lately. Probably his
desire to stay far away from Hond Steading locking up his body, while
the ship carried him steadily onward. Though he’d hoped to stay hidden,
he hadn’t relied on the fact. He’d dressed himself in the soot-grey
finery that Thratia had provided him with, the ochre-orange trim hinting
at a threat he didn’t feel himself capable of.
   Ever since Aella’d taken his injections away, he’d spent half of every
night sweating himself cold, struggling to rein in his sense so he
wasn’t so keenly aware of the great balloons of selium transporting theDread Wind through the skies. Cursed child had just laughed at him
when he told her he was on the verge of blowing them all to bits.
   Misol wasn’t alone. Aella smiled at him as he opened the door, all sweet
politeness, and swept into a slight bow. Misol gave him the once-over he
now knew was her way of checking for weapons. Funny she should be
worried about him packing a knife. He couldn’t wield a knife against
anything bigger than a steak, and he had all that lovely selium above
his head to use if he really felt like sticking it to them all.
   Probably it was a force of habit for her. Just like giving her a once
over– checking for loose pockets, poorly fastened jewelry, and anything
likely to steal – was a habit of his own.
   “You are required,” Aella said the words like she’d been practicing
them.
   “Thratia giving you etiquette lessons, little squirt?”
   A scowl crossed her face– fleeting, but definitely there – and he
allowed himself a brief smirk. Wasn’t often he was able to get the wind
up that girl.
   “We are entering a tenuous, diplomatic arena. Please try to remember
that you were born for just these types of negotiations, despite your
more recent… adventures.” Her smile returned, flashing with real
pleasure so that he knew she was about to say something truly nasty.
“We’d hate to have to resort to violence because you flubbed the
diplomacy.”
   “Have I ever told you what a charmer you are?”
   She rolled her eyes and turned her back on him. The girl had ditched the
white coat at Thratia’s request, but Detan knew well enough that a viper
could be painted as plain as a garden snake, and its fangs were still
loaded with venom.
   They escorted him toward the prow of the ship. Every step he took, his
legs felt heavier, until he was just a single step away from Thratia and
he could have sworn his boots were made of lead.
   He knew what he’d see at that prow, and he didn’t want it. Didn’t want
the city of his birth burned into his mind’s eye from this angle, didn’t
want to go to sleep at night seeing it from the sky, knowing he was
about to descend upon it to work out the final throes of his battle with
Thratia.
   For that’s what this was, he realized, as he stood a step behind her,
letting her long, straight back fill his vision so that he did not have
to look upon the city she eclipsed so fully. From the second he set foot
in Aransa, he’d loathed her and goaded her. He’d known so little about
her then, only the rumor of her exile, her reputation for viciousness.
Those two things were all the excuse he’d needed to justify taking her
flagship, theLarkspur, out from under her nose.
   Had it really been just the prize of the ship that’d lured him, then? He
doubted that truth now. He’d seen her, a proud and impervious woman,
kicked out of the same empire that’d turned against him – that’d split
his flesh for curiosity’s sake – and loathed her for the freedoms she
claimed for herself.
   He’d been jealous of her, and wanted to take something from her. And in
doing so he’d kicked a hornet’s nest, roused the specter of the
whitecoats to chase him again and stumbled into the horror of Thratia’s
bargains – deviants for weapons, though she claimed her reasons were
worth that tribute.
   He could not reconcile her. He hated her, even as he admired her, and
knew he must defeat her here in Hond Steading even as, deeply, secretly,
he knew that her winning here might not be the worst thing to happen to
his city. Valathea taking full control– that would be the real pitfire.
And Thratia’s attention was no doubt drawing the empire back to Hond
Steading like moths to a flame.
   He imagined pushing her over the prow. Imagined her breaking, fragile as
glass, against the bedrock of his homeland. Imagined her entwined with
him, too, taking control of his body and his life as the new Dame of
Hond Steading by marriage and– and… And some cowardly part of him
welcomed that; thought, wouldn’t it be easier, to let this woman who was
so sure of herself make all the hard choices? Wouldn’t it be so much
cleaner, to let her take control and do as she claims – kick the
Valatheans out of the Scorched? He could sympathize with that sentiment.
Wanted it, desperately.
   But he knew how she’d go about it. Knew she’d trade innocents for the
future betterment of many, knew the way she gambled, knew the way she
played her hands. And at the heart of everything she did there was
blood, and pain, and hadn’t he seen Aransa? Quieter than it’d ever been,
people taking to the streets only to go where they absolutely must, and
then as quickly as possible.
   Thratia’s reign was one of control, of fear and blood, and bargains he
could never bring himself to make.
   He did not know if he could do better than her. But he had to try.
   She turned. Though he’d been standing perfectly still, he felt frozen
all the same. Cursed woman had a way of looking at him that made him
feel as if she’d stripped every thought he’d ever had bare and laid it
out under a microscope for the sort of cold examination she was capable
of in all things.
   That stare was momentary, though. She smiled, and though he knew the
expression was faked, that was the danger of Thratia– how natural it
seemed, how gentle and kind and impromptu. If he had not been staring at
her in the moment when she’d speared him with that first glance, he’d
think she was genuinely delighted to see him. Thratia was a woman of
bargains, even in her own mind. And now she’d decided to tradeon being
gentle with him. That chilled him more than her cruelty.
   “Stand with me,” she said, and extended her hand to him. He could never
look upon that hand without imagining Bel’s blood on it, but this was
just one more move on the board toward his victory, and his city’s
freedom. He took her hand, and ignored the deep-seated cold of her
flesh.
   “TheDread Wind made good time,” he said, for he’d long considered
small talk the easiest way to pry away at a person’s true thoughts.
   “It was made for this day.”
   And many more to come, no doubt. He held no illusions that Thratia would
be done with the Scorched after she took Hond Steading. She could call
the hulking thing her flagship, but it was first and foremost a warship
built to last.
   She drew him forward. He forced himself to look.
   Hond Steading, from above. He loved this view. Had loved it all his
life. And for just a moment, he shoved aside the reality of his arrival.
Ignored Thratia’s cold hand, fingers folded like spider’s legs around
his.
   Here was the bedrock of his birth. The great valley of the city,
sprawled between the trailing arms of five massive firemounts. Larger
and more vibrant than any other city the Scorched had to offer, Hond
Steading drew its water from a delta to the north, aqueducts the likes
of which hadn’t even been seen in Valathea transporting that precious
fluid south to support the citizenry. Three firemounts bounded the south
of the city, the two larger loomed to the northern edge. Each bristled
with metal fittings, all five mines active as the sensitives of Hond
Steading drew forth its surplus of selium. Some of the richer districts
had taken to building with sel, as was the fashion in Valathea. Great
platforms held by thick guy wires added extra levels to the estates of
the wealthy, many lush with gardens.
   His heart clenched with joy. His city, his home, had thrived in his
absence.
   And then, inevitably, he looked for the Honding family palace.
   It spread up the steep slopes of the city’s largest firemount, set
further forward than the rest of the city, the district at its feet a
patchwork of beauty in architecture. Its grand spires were hemmed in by
walls that were more decorative than functional. And, from its many
airdocks, a fleet like none he’d ever seen before took to the sky.
   Auntie Honding had spared no expense in the defense of her city. A great
wall of ships lifted, staggered throughout the sky in such a way as to
make their numbers difficult to count. His stomach sunk, seeing the
Valathean banner flying from many a mast, and he knew just where his
auntie had allocated much of the funds– straight from the empire’s
coffers.
   She wouldn’t have had a choice. Even with their selium surplus, they
could not bend time to make so many ships before Thratia’s arrival.
They’d have to borrow them from somewhere. And yet, he’d hoped…
   Thratia squeezed his hand. She leaned forward against the railing, her
other hand gripping the smooth metal, her gaze avid as she flicked it
over the opposing fleet. There was a hunger so deep in her it unsettled
him. The very defense his auntie had mounted enticed her, pleased her.
Here was a woman so in love with domination that to see her victim
squirm and lash back gave her deep-rooted pleasure. He suppressed a
shudder.
   “Boarding flags!” A crewman called out.
   “Let them close,” Thratia commanded.
   Detan squinted through the mass of ships. A larger vessel pulled away
from the rest, cutting the sky with delicate ease. Four figures stood on
the prow of that ship, a mirror to Detan and Thratia’s own position.
Detan leaned forward and released Thratia’s hand so that she would not
feel his heart thundering through his palms. Dame Honding he knew at a
glance, but the others… Ripka? Tibal? He was not sure he could stomach
admitting his betrothal to Thratia Ganal with those eyes watching.
   The ship sped closer. Detan took a halting step back, making a low
keening sound in his throat. Misol and Aella pressed the space behind
him instantly, Aella’s power flowing over him like a balm – he hadn’t
even realized he’d reached out his senses.
   He could not yet see the face of the woman standing next to his aunt,
but the shape of her was forever burned into his memory.
   “What is it?” Thratia asked and, skies curse the woman, there was
genuine concern in her voice.
   “Ranalae,” he said.
   She hissed and turned back to watch the ship’s approach, while Detan
stood stock-still, a slow pain spreading in his chest.
   “Breathe,” Aella whispered.
   He did. The pain eased.
   “Keep me leashed,” he begged, and she nodded with such serious concern
he could have hugged the little witch.
   The ships eased alongside each other. Each thud of a gangplank snapping
into place was a nail through Detan’s heart.
   Chapter Twenty-Nine
   Ripka arrived first of the group. Latia had drawn her curtains, but
still a warm, homey light escaped around the edges. Ripka wanted nothing
more than to drag herself to that door, to pound on it and throw herself
on Latia’s fussy ministrations. But it was a bright day, and Latia had
drawn the curtains. Whatever was going on inside those walls, she wanted
no one to see.
   Enard and Honey could not have possibly made it to Latia’s house before
Ripka, hampered as they were by Honey’s injury, and Tibal would not risk
knocking on a stranger’s door. Which meant that something else had
happened. Something Latia did not want the average gravel of the city to
see.
   Ripka leaned her back against the wall of a closed tavern and caught her
breath. Silence pervaded the neighborhood so early in the morning, its
bohemian residents still in bed or off to see to more mundane chores.
The scarce population was a false wind, so far as Ripka was concerned.
There were fewer eyes to note her presence, but she stood out like rain
on a summer day. Especially standing about in her hotel robe with hints
of blood beginning to seep through around her thighs and hips.
   Footfalls alerted her to a passerby, and rather than being spotted she
ducked down into a service alley that ran alongside the tavern. It stank
of stale ale and fouler things, but Ripka’s watcher training had long
ago bashed any squeamishness out of her nostrils.
   She angled herself to see who approached, and nearly cried out with
relief when she spied Tibal strolling alongside Enard, Honey supported
between them.
   “Here,” she said, stepping out of the alley.
   “Ran across these two on my way in, and weren’t many eyes around to see
us,” Tibal said. She couldn’t blame him for assisting, even if a group
of three was more conspicuous. Honey’s cheeks were pale enough to have
turned beige, her lips wrinkled with dehydration. Despite her assurances
that she knew what she was doing, the woman was still in need of care.
Crazy didn’t make you invincible.
   Honey looked at Latia’s house and said, “Something’s wrong.”
   “I know.” Ripka explained for the guys, “She usually leaves the windows
wide open during the morning. She’s a painter, and loves the natural
light. We don’t have much choice, though. We’ve got to have her help.
Ready?”
   Honey nodded, curls hanging limp around her cheeks, and the four set off
at a hobbling, stunted pace. Ripka steeled herself, and knocked.
   The door flung open. A red-cheeked Latia glared out at them, mouth
half-opened in defiance, then recognition caught up with her, and her
jaw dropped all the way open.
   “Sweet skies!” She flung the door wide and stepped aside. “Get in, get
in. You see?” She hollered over her shoulder. “Told you there was a good
reason she didn’t show!”
   Dranik stood in the frame of Latia’s patio door, jaw agape as he watched
the four pile into Latia’s small sitting room. Dranik could wait.
   “Honey’s injured.” Ripka put some command into her voice, and Latia
jerked as if someone’d yanked on her arm. “Skies! A moment – I have
fresh cloth around here somewhere. Dranik, make yourself useful and boil
some water. How bad?”
   Latia became a whirlwind of activity while Ripka helped Enard ease Honey
onto one of Latia’s many lounge chairs.
   “It’s shallow. She’s just put too much weight on it, too soon.”
   Enard and Tibal wisely stepped back from the rush around Honey, putting
their backs to the curtained windows while Latia and Ripka peeled
Honey’s robe away and set about stitching and binding her wound. Dranik
came scurrying into the room moments later, a steaming kettle of water
hissing in his hand.
   “What in the pits happened?” he demanded, as he knelt alongside Honey
and offered the hot water to Latia to clean the wraps before binding
Honey’s thigh.
   To this, Ripka had no good answer. She hesitated only a moment, then
decided to err on the side of truth. If they were going to work
together, they had to trust one another, and Ripka couldn’t very well
expect him to let her into his inner circle if she lied to him now. She
couldn’t think of a convincing lie, anyway. The truth would be enough of
a stretch.
   “We were detained overnight in the Hotel Cinder by the Honding family
guards. Honey’s injury allowed us an opportunity to escape this morning.
I am sorry I missed your meeting, Dranik, but–”
   “Pits take my meeting.” He bounced to his feet, shooting the men a hard
look. “How did you get detained? And who in the pits are these two
people?”
   “Friends of mine, I trust them both with my life.”
   “That’s all very well and good for you, but–”
   Ripka was on her feet before she’d realized it, closed the distance
between her and Dranik and pressed her face so close to his he had to
step back or be headbutted. Her robe fell open, revealing the smears of
blood on her nightshift, and she watched with perverse satisfaction as
his throat bobbed.
   “I have had one pits-cursed night, in no small part because of my
efforts on behalf of this city. They are my friends. They are
trustworthy. Their names are Enard and Tibal. You will treat them with
the same courtesy you have shown me, or I will walk right the fuck out
that door and leave you to unravel your own shitpile. Am I quite
understood?”
   “Yes,” he squeaked.
   “Say hello to Tibal and Enard.”
   “Uh, I… Hello, Tibal and Enard.”
   “Smile.”
   He did.
   She slumped away from him, took an unsteady step backward, and tried
very hard not to laugh at the ridiculousness of the situation.
   “Pardon me,” Latia said, “that was all very convincing, and you four are
very welcome in my home but, with all respect, what the fuck happened?”
   “A few days ago I took it upon myself to intercept a message the Dame
Honding sent to her Valathean contacts. That interception was discovered
sometime yesterday, and we were apprehended last night and detained
until the Dame could figure out what to do with us. That clear enough?”
   Latia’s eyes were wide as saucers. “You stole information from the
Dame?”
   “I would steal her knickers off her wrinkled ass if it meant I could
keep this city safe. Do you understand me now, both of you?”
   “I…” Dranik mustered a shred of dignity. “Why? Why do you care so much
about this city?”
   Ripka looked at the mess she’d made. At Latia and Dranik, pale with
fear. At Enard, pushed away from her so thoroughly that she hardly
thought his name unless it was in the context of saving the city. And
Tibal, whose friendship she’d nearly lost for good due to her own anger,
her own rash decisions. Even Honey only tolerated her out of some
misguided sense of loyalty to Ripka’s violent streak.
   Hond Steading’s fate had so consumed her, her loss of Aransa so
undermined her confidence, that she’d been working this job from the
wrong angle. Taking on Detan’s mannerisms, his panache for misdirection.
That’d almost gotten them all beheaded at the Dame’s hand. It was time
to play this game on a more comfortable footing. And time, too, to make
some pretty hard apologies. But those would have to wait. Now, she
needed Dranik on her side. Herreal side.
   “My name is Ripka Leshe, and I was watch-captain when Aransa fell. I
have lost one city to Thratia Ganal. I will not lose another. Do you see
that I am quite serious, and that I mean to help you all?”
   “I never doubted your intent,” Dranik stammered, “but when you didn’t
show up–”
   Latia swatted at him.“Stop simpering and find these people some fresh
clothes, and draw some bathwater, for skies’ sake. I take it you four
don’t exactly enjoy wearing all that blood.”
   Ripka shot Latia a fierce grin.“Red’s not my color.”
   “Skies, but I must paint you.”
   “Later. Now, we have a city to save, and very little time to do it.
Valathea is already moving in, and I’d bet anything Thratia’s forces
will arrive in full within the week. Dranik – those contacts of yours,
can you take me to them?”
   He paused halfway to the patio to draw fresh water, frowning hard.“They
were annoyed when the new recruits I promised them didn’t show, but–”
   “But consider how much more pleased they’ll be with four new
sycophants.”
   “Ah. Yes. That could work.” He scurried out the door, bucket swinging
from one hand, and let out a startled yelp.
   “What is itnow?” Latia was on her feet in an instant, but Ripka made
it to the patio first. There was no one there, just Dranik, bucket
dropped at his feet, head tipped back as he stared at the swathe of blue
sky above all their heads.
   A sky that wasn’t so blue any more. A fat shadow spilled over Latia’s
garden wall, swelling with every inch it claimed across the tiles. Ripka
swallowed once, then followed Dranik’s gaze to the sky which was
pristine just a few moments ago.
   The largest ship she’d ever seen marred the clouds. Though she could
only see its belly and a sliver of its deck, it still managed to blot
out the sun. Structures dotted the side that she could see, the ship
twisted into a three-quarters view that rapidly dwindled as it slithered
into position. It took her a moment to place those structures, as she
had never seen so many clustered in one place before – harpoon guns, all
of them, and the largest of their kind.
   It approached the city from the west, its accordion wings throwing
shadows so wide they almost ate up the entire city. Valathea, she knew,
would come from the north– across the sea and over the delta. The only
thing west of Hond Steading was Aransa.
   Was Thratia Ganal.
   Enard and Tibal came to flank her, and their combined shadow formed a
smaller version of the great ship’s: Ripka as the body, Enard and Tibal
as the splayed wings.
   “She comes,” Dranik said, voice quiet with tension.
   But there was more than Thratia Ganal on that ship, and only the two men
who stood beside her knew that with the same certainty she did. A
greater threat, or savior, arrived in Hond Steading this morning.
   Thratia Ganal was expected, counted upon, prepared for. She was a force
of nature, but one that could be predicted and moved against with enough
time and effort.
   Detan Honding, however, was a wildcard. And though Ripka believed in the
deepest recesses of her heart that he’d only bent knee to Aella to save
them all from the fate he’d since endured, she could not know what that
fate had done to him. Could not know what plans he made now, what
schemes were spooling out from his lips all across the city. After
spending half a year as a willing captive of Thratia and Aella, she
could not even be certain that he still counted those two his enemies.
For all she knew, he came to bend Hond Steading to Thratia’s will.
   But no. He wouldn’t. She knew that man, in the way she knew herself.
Knew that despite all his gruff games, his quick tongue and his light
fingers, he was wrapping himself in deception to hide the core of
goodness in him. The core that had been bruised by the Bone Tower so
badly it had retreated to the deepest recesses of his being.
   “So soon,” Latia murmured. “I thought we’d have some time yet to
prepare.”
   “There’s no preparing for what’s on that ship,” Tibal said. Ripka had
never agreed with him more in her entire life.
   “What do you mean?” Latia asked.
   Ripka said,“Detan Honding has come home.”
   “Skies help us all,” Tibal whispered, too soft for anyone but Ripka to
hear.
   Chapter Thirty
   Thratia did not make Dame Honding board her ship to speak terms, and
Detan found that strangely kind of her. Whoever held the ground, held
the upper hand, and he knew sure as his nerves were on fire that Thratia
was aware of that fact.
   But she was a crafty rockviper, his bloodthirsty betrothed, and he
suspected that she saw some other upperhand to be gained in dealing with
the Dame on her turf. For his part, Detan wished deeply that she’d
decided to deal with them on the solid deck of theDread Wind. Not
that he wanted Thratia to have any advantage– he simply wanted to know
all the good hiding places, should his dear auntie lash out at him in
the way he expected.
   He was also convinced that Thratia’d allowed Aella to bring along Callia
just to put Ranalae on edge. Disgusting little move that it was, he
hoped it played true. If anyone in the whole of the world needed her
nerves shaken, it was the mistress of the Bone Tower.
   What a sordid little party they made, tromping across the gangplank to
his auntie’s flagship. The boards thundered under his boots, the wind
pushed at him as if urging him to turn back. He wanted to tell the wind
to mind its own pitsdamned business.
   Thratia dragged along a selection of her honor guard, and Detan was just
now getting the sense that she’d planned their wardrobe to complement
his and hers both. They wore the slate grey coats he’d seen hidden under
crates of booze in Aransa, but they’d been trimmed with piping of
ochre-orange, like his own coat, and bloodstone red like her tunic. Such
a small thing, but it was these deft moves of which Thratia was truly a
master. Without so much as saying a word, their entourage presented as a
cohesive unit, Detan’s importance on par with Thratia’s own. His auntie
wouldn’t take long to figure out what hand Thratia was about to deal
her.
   Ranalae stood at his auntie’s right. For a breathless moment, she was
all he could see, though she spared him little more than a cool glance.
Auntie Honding, however, appeared to be trying to render him into mush
with the sheer force of her glare.
   “Well met under blue skies, Warden Ganal, nephew.” Auntie Honding had
gotten her smile back on, and made a perfect show of bowing over her
upheld palms.
   “Well met, Dame Honding,” Thratia replied, and Detan bowed in sync with
her to hide his smile at her casual dismissal of Ranalae’s presence. At
least they were of one mind when it came to that nasty piece of work.
   She could not be ignored for long, however, as she had sighted the
withered form of Callia at the end of Aella’s leash. Her face twisted
with disgust, smoothed away in haste, and she smiled with all her teeth
at Aella.
   “What have you done?”
   The question took Detan by surprise. He’d expected shock, revulsion,
anything except immediate acceptance. He had not considered that she
would assume Aella had been the source of Callia’s ailment. Poor
foresight, on his part. Just because he’d taken the little tyke for a
normal child on first sighting didn’t mean those around her had missed
the signs. Aella had the blood of a killer in her veins – and she didn’t
even enjoy the act like any other self-respecting psychopath would.
   “I have taken care of my ill mother,” Aella said with impressive poise.
She stroked Callia’s hair, and that woman tilted her head to accept the
affection. Whatever was left rattling around inside Callia’s skull, it
didn’t appear to recognize Ranalae. Maybe it just saw another coat, and
that was the extent of things.
   “A strange illness.”
   “Callia’s condition is unfortunate, but we are not here to discuss your
past employee’s health,” Thratia interjected, cutting the rising tension
between Aella and Ranalae short. “We are here to discuss the future of
Hond Steading.”
   The Dame’s brows lifted. “Are we? The future of this city is my
prerogative, Warden, and I do not recall inviting you to offer advice.”
   Thratia’s smile was slow as a rockcat who’d just slapped a paw down on
its favorite prey. Detan steeled himself, knowing what was coming.
   “And mine, sooner than you’d think. Your heir and I are to be married.
We have come to celebrate the nuptials with you, and the handover of the
city into his care, of course.”
   His auntie’s gaze snapped to him, pure shock registering for just a
moment before she managed to compose herself. Detan forced himself to
stand still and tall, his face impassive, as Dame Honding took in the
situation in full. Her gaze did not fail to linger on the harpoons
lining the deck of theDread Wind, and for that he was proud of her.
   “An interesting travel arrangement for a wedding procession,” she said
dryly. “Tell me, nephew, is this… arrangement to your liking as well?”
   If the pits opened up and swallowed them all right at that moment, he
could die a happy man, but they’d never been likely to do what he’d
wanted, and today was no exception. He plastered on the breezy smile of
a spoiled aristocrat, content to have a headstrong spouse take the
reins, and shrugged.
   “I cannot think of a stronger match.” Which was true enough, in a
literal sense. He’d bet damn near anything that Thratia could arm
wrestle half the women in the Scorched into submission.
   “I see. I would like a moment alone with my nephew, if that is all right
with you, Warden?”
   She flicked a dismissive hand.“He is his own man. Take your time.
Ranalae and I have much to discuss.”
   Detan was a little insulted to realize Thratia didn’t think he had the
balls to say what he felt in private, but then, she probably believed he
had acquiesced in truth to her plan. The very sight of a whitecoat had
once been enough to make Detan leap, blindly, from Thratia’s dock. She
had no reason to doubt that the threat of them taking the imperial
throne, and ultimately Hond Steading, would be enough to win him to her
as a reluctant ally.
   Fool of a woman.
   Detan followed his aunt to her private cabin, doing his best to ignore
the sideways stare Ranalae had locked on him. Let her stare all she
liked; he was beyond her reach, now. Thratia’s protection aside, if she
so much as grabbed for him he’d drop this ship from the sky, and he’d
bet anything that she knew it, too.
   His auntie’s cabin was sparse, but well-lit, which was rather
unfortunate, as the sharp light emphasized every line of the scowl that
marred her usually genteel features.
   “What in the pits are you doing, young man? I haven’t seen a sliver of
you since you left Valathea, and now you show up on my doorstep with an
invading army – the commander of which you, apparently, intend to wed?
Is this how I raised you?”
   “Left Valathea? I fled that nightmare, Auntie, and if you haven’t seen
a trace of me since that day then I assure you it was for your own
safety – and that of everyone in Hond Steading.”
   She drew back, her hip knocking the edge of a shelf, and in that
slightest of movements, that wrinkled fear around her too-sharp eyes,
Detan knew.
   Dame Honding: the only family he had left, the woman who had raised him
after his parents’ deaths, the singular protectress of all Hond
Steading, knew what he was. Knew what had really happened on the side of
a firemount all those years ago, when he’d blown a selium pipeline to
smithereens and all the miners with it. She knew, and she’d sent him
willingly to the Bone Tower. Therewas no other reason for her to be
afraid of him now. He’d never been one to strike out – but a man of his
power with his ire up around so much selium could be a deadly thing
indeed.
   “You knew. You fucking knew, and you told me nothing.” He wanted to
raise his voice, to clench his fists and shout the sky down around her,
but he simply didn’t have it in him. Oh, the anger was there, he could
feel it bubbling just beneath the surface of his skin, but it seemed a
distant thing to him now, the sting of her betrayal hollowed by time and
distance. And Aella’s training, he’d have to give her credit for that.
   “I guessed, I did not know.”
   “And you?”
   She stared down her nose at him.“I have no sel-sense, as Eletraia was
always quick to remind me.”
   That name, so long buried, opened a sinkhole in his heart.“Do not blame
any of this on my mother. If you even suspected, you should have tested
me earlier – told me what I was capable of. You sure as the pits are
black shouldn’t have sent me out on the fucking line to endanger
everyone!”
   “Your mother – and I will say my sister’s name as I please, boy – was
supposed to pass the knowledge to you, and if not her then your father
after her. I had no way of knowing she’d failed in her task.”
   “She was dead before I was twelve! And my father damned near jumped into
the grave after her – she – she tried, I think, but there was so little
time.”
   “And what was I supposed to do with you, after I’d discovered her
failure to teach you restraint? She’d never deigned to tell me her
techniques, even though the fire she held consumed her from within, so
when Ranalae offered to take you in and teach you discipline, how was I
to decline? I am sorry I sent you away, but it was far too dangerous to
keep you here, you must see that. And spreading the rumor that you’d
lost your sel-sense kept you safe, kept your people open to loving you
should the Bone Tower ever teach you well enough to return. But when I
heard you’d run away from them–”
   He thrust a trembling hand between them.“Stop. Just. Stop. Teach me
discipline? Run away? Have you no fucking clue what Ranalae is, what
actually happens in the Bone Tower? It’s not named for its pretty white
walls, Auntie. It’s named for the experiments-turned-corpses buried at
its feet.”
   “The empress would never–”
   “The empress is dead!” Shit. He hadn’t meant to say that, hadn’t meant
to clue his auntie in to Thratia’s little tale of a political coup. He
needed his auntie blind to Thratia’s motives, needed her to keep Ranalae
around so that the imperial fleet’s presence would perform as a stopgap
to keep Thratia from swooping right in. Without Ranalae’s numbers here,
bolstering the city’s defenses, Thratia may not even need him to take
control.
   And then he’d be given over into Aella’s complete care. Thratia’s
loyalties were to her own power, and the second she didn’t need him as
an heir she’d relegate him to specimen.
   “Don’t be a fool,” she snapped. “I received a letter from her just this
morning.”
   Delivered by Ranalae’s couriers, no doubt, but he wasn’t about to press
the point.
   “You washed your hands of me. You cut me loose, bundled me away to the
whitecoats and never gave it a second thought. Did you ever write to
them to ask how my so-called training was going? Did you ever inquire
after their methods of teaching? No, you fucking didn’t, because as
strong as you are, as clever as you are, I think you knew.
   “Not wholly, not the complete picture, but a smart woman like you should
have a pretty good idea of what an empire would do with a man who could
be turned into a walking weapon. But you saw a solution to your little
problem, a way to clean up the mess you felt my mother left behind, so
you shovedme away behind those walls, across a sea, and thought no more
of me.
   “Were you afraid, when you’d heard I’d escaped? You must have had an
idea as to why.” He stepped forward. She stepped back. He let the words
course through him, let the old hurts bleed out through his lips, and
marveled, silently, that he didn’t feel the slightest urge to tear the
sky to pieces while he rode his anger.
   “You must have wondered if I might come home, looking for vengeance. Is
that why you only ever wrote to me of banal things? Is that why all your
letters were about who married who, and what crops were doing well that
year? To keep an eye on my mental stability without ever asking
outright? Not once. Not fucking once, did you ask what had happened to
me there. Did you ask if I was safe? If I was hurting? You let the
rumors swirl about a disgraced lord who’d lost his sel-sense and turned
to conning for food and fun, and stuck your head deep in the sand.
   “If you’re angry at all that I’ve come here with Thratia on my arm, you
have only yourself to blame. You cut me loose, left me to suffer, and
didn’t so much as send a bouquet of flowers, but you couldn’t be
bothered to renounce me as heir, either, and now it’s biting you
straight in theass, isn’t it?”
   “I didn’t abandon you,” she whispered, and he felt ill to see a sheen of
tears building in the corners of her eyes. “Tibal was supposed to–”
   “What the fuck do you know about Tibal?”
   She pressed her lips shut hard, as if to snap back the words.“He never
told you?”
   A knock on the door made them both jump.“Everything all right in
there?” Aella’s voice, smooth, but tinged with warning. His senses had
reached out without his conscious agreement at Tibs’s name, he hadn’t
even noticed. Some wounds were just too fresh to risk picking at.
Whatever his auntie thought she knew about Tibs would have to wait.
   “Fine,” he grated, reeling himself back under control. Aella must have
jumped out of her skin when she’d felt him reach out like a shockwave.
His sphere of influence was beginning to unsettle even himself. It
seemed every time he reached, he reached farther than before. Not
necessarily a goodthing, when one was surrounded by five active selium
mines. He’d better get off this ship, before his auntie got them all
blown to bits.
   “Did Pelkaia make it here?” he asked. She blinked, the change in subject
sudden enough to take her off guard.
   “Yes – and your friends, Tibal, Ripka, and those others. I don’t like
that Honey woman.”
   “I don’t really care what you like.” The words were out before he could
stop them, his temper still high though he’d reeled in his power. As a
young man, he would have rather cut his own tongue out than speak this
way to her. His auntie had been the domineering force of his life ever
since the day his mother had died – for his father’s spirit had fled on
that day, as well – guiding, but always firm. Now, he’d discovered there
were greater terrors in the world. And he’d faced them, and won.
   And would again.
   “You really are just like Elatraia. Careful it doesn’t burn you up from
the inside, too.”
   He ignored the jab, and fell back on formality.“We will bring theDread Wind to the palace to begin preparations for the marriage
ceremony. See that my friends come to see me.”
   “They have fled into the city, or so my guards tell me. I have no way of
contacting them.”
   “Fled?”
   A flicker of uncertainty crossed her face.“I had placed them under
house arrest at the Hotel Cinder until this whole silly invasion of your
betrothed was over. They took poorly to the treatment.”
   He snort-laughed.“I can only imagine. Why in a clear sky would you ever
find it necessary to lock them up?”
   “They intervened one too many times in my methods of preparing the
city.”
   “Do you know how you can be certain you’ve walked down the wrong path?”
   “I suspect you’ll tell me.”
   “Ripka Leshe disagrees with you.”
   “This is my city.”
   “For now,” he said, and sighed, reaching up to drag a hand through the
hair he’d worked so hard to arrange into nobleman perfection. “Be safe,
Auntie.”
   She reached to him, fingers curling to clasp his shoulder, but he had
already turned, and felt little more than the brush of her fingertips
against his sleeve. The air had grown cooler while he’d been in that
cabin, the sunlight muted by a lazy drifting of clouds. He shoved his
hands into his pockets and strolled over to Thratia’s side, sliding his
affable smile back into place like slotting a key.
   “Auntie Honding has offered us use of her private dock for theDread
Wind while you and I prepare for the happily-ever-after.”
   Thratia’s brows lifted, but Dame Honding had followed him out just close
enough to have overheard, and she nodded mute agreement.
   “This is preposterous,” Ranalae insisted, her color already up as she
continued on whatever argument she and Thratia had been having before
the Hondings reappeared. “Dame Honding does not wish to relinquish
control of her family’s holdings to you, Thratia. We all know this
wedding is a farce. To the pits with your heir, Dame, this is an
invasion – though a subtle one. Our fleet is well equipped. If Thratia
wishes to claim your city, then let her try to take it from us.”
   Dame Honding looked at Ranalae like she’d discovered a stray dog digging
up her garden. “Hond Steading stays in the Honding family blood, and
Detan is my only heir. Who he chooses to wed is his own business.”
   “You wrote to our empress asking for protection from this woman, and now
you spread your arms and welcome her to your family bosom?”
   “Are you blind, or just stupid?” Detan said, keeping his voice level
lest Aella get jumpy over him arguing with a whitecoat – withthe
whitecoat.
   “Excuse me, boy?”
   “Boy?” Detan snorted and pulled himself to his full height. All this
bickering was beginning to wear on him. “I am heir to this city,
Ranalae, while you are little more than its guest.”
   “This city is defended.” She spread her arms to indicate the ships she’d
brought with her, mingled in amongst Hond Steading’s regular fleet. It
made him ill to see them there, the weapons of a monster arrayed like
spike pits around the city he loved.
   “By me.” Detan held up a hand, a casual gesture, and poised his fingers
as if ready to snap them. “Would you care to do battle, Ranalae of the
Bone Tower? You know what I am, let’s not forget that, and you know
who’s been training me. Tell me, do you think your ships could answer
your call before I dropped them all from the sky? You are correct – this
negotiation is a polite farce. But it is a farce because we could wipe
you from the sky without a thought, you dribbling sycophant.”
   “You would destroy all those lives, just to prove a point?”
   “Ranalae, I would burn the very ship I stand on now if I could be
assured no trace of you or your forces would be left on this world.”
   He turned, taking Thratia’s elbow firmly in hand as if he did so all the
time, and called over his shoulder. “Make the dock ready, we will arrive
before nightfall.”
   When they were back on the heavy deck of theDread Wind, Thratia
extricated her arm from his grip and raised a brow at him.“Impressive
performance, Honding. I almost believed you’d burn us all myself.”
   He closed the space between them, set both palms against the cabin wall
to either side of her face, and leaned down, over her.“That was no
performance, lover. If I have a chance to burn that woman and all that
would continue her work from the world, make no mistake: I will take it,
no matter the cost.”
   Chapter Thirty-One
   Hond Steading buzzed with rumors under the shadows of the invading
fleet. They pressed Ripka on all sides, fragments of whispers and
declarations of doomsday following her down every street. Her only
consolation was that Tibal, Enard, and Dranik looked just as wary as she
did. Though she missed having Honey at her side, she was glad they’d
left the injured woman with Latia to rest. The streets hummed with
tension, and Ripka held no doubts that Honey would have itched to add to
their song. She hoped Latia kept Honey well sedated while they were
gone.
   A beggar woman stepped into Ripka’s path. Rags impregnated with dust
draped her body, and she clutched a paper-wrapped bouquet of hastily
plucked pricklebrush flowers, their petals drooping and only half the
thorns stripped from their stems.
   “Flowers for the royal wedding?” she asked, shoving one hand forward
with a cupped palm for grains.
   Foul breath gusted against Ripka’s cheek, but she’d spent more than
enough time working with the beggars of Aransa to be put off by such a
simple thing. “What wedding?” she asked, digging in her pockets to make
the woman linger.
   “The only rumor that’s true!” the woman crowed. She glanced left and
right, then leaned forward and brought a hand up to shield the side of
her lips as she whispered. “The Lord Honding has returned and is to wed
Thratia Ganal.”
   Ripka froze.“That can’t be right.”
   “Got it off the palace guards themselves.” She wiggled her hand, and
Ripka deposited a copper grain into it mechanically. The woman moved to
give her a flower, but she waved her off.
   “For the information,” she said, and the woman gave her what might have
been a sarcastic bow before trundling away to find her next mark.
   For a moment, all four of them just stood there, contemplating the
woman’s information, and Ripka was glad for the silence of her
companions. Her gaze dragged across the dusty streets of the city and
found the massive shape of Thratia’s new flagship, theDread Wind,
drifting with slow precision toward the towers of the Honding family
palace. Her fleet remained on the edge of the city, poised for action,
but not invading. Not yet. Why should they, when their mistress was
prepared to marry the city’s heir and take the throne through legal
means?
   Clever bitch. She’d spent years positioning herself in Aransa to be
elected to the Warden’s seat, nice and smooth, when the position finally
opened up. Ripka had assumed she’d use Detan as a weapon, if she could
force him to do her bidding. She had not considered that she might force
him to her bed.
   Nausea gripped her at the thought, and she shook it away. Detan was in a
dire position, but he was not without teeth of his own. And yet…
   He was her friend. Her friend was up there, on that ship, just out of
reach. Being paraded around like a trophy. Subjected to… perhaps, well.
Her stomach clenched. She could not form the word in her mind. Just
thinking around its edges made her want to rally all of Hond Steading’s
watchers and storm that ship, rip Detan from Thratia’s vile hands.
   “We have to get word to him, somehow, that we can help…”
   “Not exactly on friendly terms with the palace,” Tibal said.
   “We’re not, no. But Pelkaia is.”
   “Last she saw him, she looked willing to rip his face off, and I don’t
think this news will smooth matters over much.”
   “Are you saying we shouldn’t try?”
   Tibal’s head dropped as he kicked at the ground and tugged his hat down
to hide his eyes. “No, Captain. Just sayin’ we don’t know where his mind
is.”
   “You really think he’s skipping through fields of flowers hand-in-hand
with Thratia?”
   “No.” The word was harsh, bitter. “But I’m not sure us interfering would
help him any, and we got our own troubles to manage.”
   “You’re certain he doesn’t want her?” Dranik asked, a deep furrow
between his brows. Ripka coughed over a laugh. Of course he wouldn’t
know any better. None of the citizenry of Hond Steading had heard
anything but wild rumor about their heir for the last few years, and
none of it added upto make Detan look like a particularly stable
individual. Marrying a bloodthirsty tyrant just might seem like a grand
ole time to him, as far as they knew.
   “There are few people in this world Detan hates more than Thratia, and
I’m reasonably certain that the only reason she doesn’t return the
sentiment is because she can’t be bothered mustering up the energy to
care one way or another. He’s a tool for her to gain the throne legally,
nothing more.”
   “Why would he agree to such a match, then?”
   Tibal snorted and stared pointedly at the heavy ships spread across the
sky like ink stains.“Because he doesn’t want bloodshed in this city any
more than we do. Damn fool is probably arrogant enough to think he’ll
retain some control of his throne after he’s hitched himself off to
her.”
   “I pray he’s not stupid enough to bed her, then,” Dranik said.
   Enard, Ripka, and Tibal exchanged a look. It was Ripka who managed to
ask,“Why is that?”
   “If she cares so little for him, then once he gets an heir on her he’ll
be useless to her.”
   “Shit,” Tibal said.
   Ripka closed her eyes and rubbed the bridge of her nose with thumb and
forefinger.“We have to get a message through to him, somehow. If she
casts him off…”
   “Aella will catch him,” Enard said.
   The three shivered. Dranik looked thoroughly put out.“Who is Aella?”
   “A nasty little friend of Thratia’s,” Ripka sighed and opened her eyes.
Time to focus. “Come, let’s get this meeting with your people over with,
Dranik. Maybe they’ll have some information we can use.”— ⁂ —
   Dranik led them to an inconspicuous door along a street full of mercer
houses. Judging by the sweet scent emanating from within, they were at
the trade room of a bright eye berry distributor. Not the most nefarious
of locales, but Ripka knew from long experience that a posh setting
often hid the darkest of dealings.
   Dranik scarcely knocked once before the door swung open. A
barrel-chested man with a moustache drooping down past the line of his
chin set a wary squint on them all.
   “Dranik tole me two ladies were comin’,” he said, and jabbed a finger at
Tibal. “Unless you’re particularly ugly, miss, you and your manfriend
there are unexpected company. Not much a fan of uninvited guests.”
   “We need all the help we can get,” Dranik shot back, throwing glances
over both his shoulders. No one would have had reason to be suspicious
of a plain trading house until he started up that darting glance
nonsense. Ripka sighed and stepped forward, extending her hand to the
man.
   “I understand and respect your caution. My name is Ripka, and I can
assure you these men are of the same mind as I.”
   He took her hand and squeezed it a touch too hard.“Name’s Calson, and I
appreciate your forwardness, but I’d like to know just what mind you’re
of. Dranik gave us warning you were coming, and told us why, but I’d
rather hear it straight from your lips, miss, if you don’t mind my
saying so. Lot of tension ‘round these parts. You understand.”
   Not only did she understand, she was absolutely relieved that someone
had a suspicious bent in this group. If they really did accept her
without so much as a sideways glance she’d be wondering if they really
were working for Thratia.
   She squeezed his hand with equal measure.“The three of us were all
present when Thratia took Aransa.” The wordswhen Aransa fell were on
the tip of her tongue. She forced herself to bite them back.“And we’d
like to help see her succeed here in Hond Steading. There are four of
us, another woman as you were told, but she’s recovering from an injury.
She should be with us at the next meeting.”
   “Funny thing, leaving Aransa after the takeover if you felt positively
toward our warden.”
   She shrugged.“We’re wanderers by nature. Some souls just can’t sit
still.”
   “And anyway,” Tibal interjected, “Thratia’s people got a hand on Aransa.
It’s Hond Steading that needs help.”
   “True enough,” Calson said. It was a marvel, the way Tibal could speak
something he thought was true but have it mean something entirely
different to the person he was speaking to. No wonder he and Detan had
worked up quite the reputation as con men across the Scorched.
   “Time’s wasting,” Dranik said, “and we have a mission tonight, don’t
we?”
   “So we do. Follow me, then.” Calson waved an arm, and they trailed after
him down a long hallway.
   The meeting hall for Dranik’s underworld compatriots looked like it was
more accustomed to meetings of accountants than thieves. Pyramids of the
bright eye berry seed dotted the floor along the wall, their aroma sharp
and tangy in the air. Massive scales served as the room’s only decor,
taking up half the surface of the long table the conspirators were now
gathered around. After she was seated, Ripka found the presence of the
scales irritating, as every other time she glanced to face whoever was
speaking, the polished bronze threw light into her eyes.
   “These here are the extra hands Dranik promised us,” Calson said, then
rattled off a list of names of the six around the table so quickly that
Ripka didn’t manage to catch a single one of them.
   “Thratia’s here, it’s time to begin,” a scarred woman with two prominent
front teeth was saying. Ripka hadn’t caught her name, but she figured it
probably didn’t matter. The woman had a high, whining voice, and smelled
faintly of donkeyshit.
   “We haven’t received word from any of our contacts yet. It’s too soon,
we must be patient,” Calson said in his slow, placating voice.
   “Did you not have a mission prepared tonight?” Enard asked, all oblique
innocence. The group shifted uneasily as one. Dranik may have vouched
for them, and they were obviously in need of the numbers, but still the
presence of the newcomers made them uneasy – especially with their
mistress close to hand.
   “Thing is,” Calson drawled as he leaned back in his chair and settled
his arms over the curve of his belly, “I haven’t decided if you’re
invited yet.”
   Dranik’s cheeks grew crimson and he laid both of his palms down on the
table as if he were holding himself in place. “We need the help, and
these three are better suited to the work than we are. Do you remember
what happened last time? Kleesie nearly got her head torn off, and I
remember you damn near shitting yourself.”
   “No language like that in this room,” Calson said. “Your concerns are
noted, Dranik, but you’re telling me these three new friends of yours
are practiced at violence, right? Well that just makes me even jumpier
around them – sorry, folks, but things are just too tense and I can’t
trust new blood with the more delicate matters. You understand.”
   “I don’t, actually.” Ripka leaned forward, folding her hands together on
the tabletop as if she were entering into a negotiation. Or an
interrogation. “We’re mercenaries, and we’ve expressed our intended
loyalty. You know anything about mercenaries, you know they don’t buck a
job until it’s done. We wish to see Thratia get what she deserves, and
frankly I don’t think your little group here has what it takes to pull
that off.”
   “Mercenaries, is it? Thought you were all just wanderers. Mercenaries
get paid, lass, what’re you asking in payment?”
   Enard flashed a grin she’d only seen him muster once before – when he’d
faced down his old Glasseater gangmates on the beach of the Remnant.
“We’re not in need of grains, if that’s what you’re asking. Sometimes,
people like us, we just like to take a little pleasure in doing a job
well. Understand?”
   Tension webbed the wrinkles around Calson’s eyes, his hands flexed on
the tabletop. Everyone in his group was looking at him, save Dranik, who
stared at Enard as if he’d never seen him before. Ripka couldn’t blame
him. The first time she’d seen Enard switch from affable, sweet New Chum
to the hard-boned man who’d been a valet for the Glasseaters she’d
damned near choked on air, too.
   “Telling me you’re in it for the love of the work?” Calson said.
   “I’m telling you we’re in. That’s all you need to know.”
   “He’s got a point,” a scrawny man with a surprisingly well-tailored suit
said. Ripka’d pegged him as the owner of the counting house. “We’re not
fighters, Calson. And we need some to do right by our assignments.”
   Tibal isn’t a fighter either, Ripka thought, but judging by this group
she had no doubt he’d handle himself a whole pits lot better in a sticky
situation than any one of them.
   Calson sighed and leaned back, letting his arms go slack at his sides.“All right then. Dranik, we’ll let your friends play tonight. As a trial
only. Anything I don’t like happens and you’re all out – you too,
Dranik.”
   Dranik nodded.“You won’t regret it.”
   The bucktoothed woman snorted, proving herself more astute than she let
on.
   “We’re agreed, then,” Ripka said, “now let’s hear what’s expected for
this job.”
   Calson ruffled his hair, grimaced, then pulled a leather-wrapped bundle
of papers from his interior jacket pocket and dropped it on the table
with a puff of dust.
   “Orders came in this morning. Got a new mark.”
   “Another deviant?” the wiry man asked.
   “Aye,” Calson said.
   Ripka stiffened, and listened to the details of the woman they were
meant to sell into slavery for Thratia Ganal.
   Chapter Thirty-Two
   Detan was home. TheDread Wind listed in the dock at the Honding
family palace, its bulk throwing shadows over the finely manicured
courtyard below. All around him servants and crewmembers darted to and
fro, moving crates of supplies and essentials off the ship and into
palace rooms. Thratia had disembarked some time ago, seeking a room high
in the palace’s most prestigious tower. Aella had probably scurried
after her, seeking living arrangements that didn’t sway with every
breeze.
   But Detan just stood there, rooted to the spot at the fore rail,
watching the hustle and bustle of the ship’s arrival. Rumors of his
impending nuptials drifted on whispered conversations. Wary glances came
his way, then darted aside at the slightest hint of his notice. He
ignored them.
   He was home, and he was not, and what was worst of all, Tibal’s flier,
his flier, theHappy Birthday Virra! drifted, tethered to a narrow
spire of the palace. His chest ached to know that Tibal was not in the
room beside the craft.
   “Do you require assistance, young Master Honding?”
   A man in the tight, black livery of his family approached him.
Salt-white hair curled over his temples, storm-blue eyes peering out at
him from within sunken walnut skin. Detan knew those eyes, though the
face holding them was much older now. He knew the restrained amusement
in the old man’s features, too.
   “Gatai?”
   The man winked and bowed.“Forever at your service, young master.”
   Detan damned near giggled with glee. To the pits with decorum, he threw
his arms around the old man’s shoulders and gathered him in for a tight
hug. Gatai grunted, peeling himself away with reserved dignity.
   “Gatai! You old codger, I can’t believe auntie hasn’t kicked you to the
streets yet. Weren’t you dogging the maids’ skirts last time I was
here?”
   Gatai’s brows rose. “The other valets’ coattails, more like, but I’ve
settled down with a man nearly my own age now.”
   “You, romancing someone your age? I can hardly believe it.”
   Gatai bowed his head.“It’s true, young master. We’ve adopted a little
girl together. Trella. But I hear you are prepared to settle down
yourself, now?”
   The quick twitch at the corner of Gatai’s lips was all Detan needed to
understand exactly what he thought of the match, and Detan really
couldn’t blame the man. If someone had told him just a few months ago
that he’d be swinging into matrimony with Thratia Ganal, he would have
lost his lunch all over their shoes.
   “Politics does funny things to a man,” Detan said, casting his voice low
so that they would not be overheard.
   “Ah. I’m sorry to hear it, then.”
   Detan slung an arm around his old valet’s shoulders and steered him down
the gangplank. When his boots hit the hard stones of the Honding
palace’s dock, a faint shudder rocked through him, one Gatai was polite
enough to pretend he hadn’t noticed.
   Gatai’s discretion was legendary, his charm a veritable force of nature,
and if Detan hadn’t had him in his life in those early years after the
passing of his mother and father he was certain that he and his auntie
would have torn one another to pieces before he’d ever gotten old enough
to manifest his deviant ability. If there were anyone he could trust in
his old home, it was Gatai. He hoped.
   If things had changed so much for the worse that even Gatai would betray
him, then he wasn’t convinced the victory he sought was worth having.
   “You see and hear everything that goes on in these halls, don’t you, old
man?”
   Gatai quirked his head to the side in a shallow attempt to hide a
prideful smile.“Keen listening is very much a part of my profession,
young master. As you well know, it is my duty to be ready to meet your
needs before you’ve even expressed them.”
   “And to think we use such a marvelous ability for little more than
seeing our clothes are laid out and our schedules managed.”
   “Some more astute members of the household have experimented in varied
uses of my skill sets, young master.”
   “Ah, yes, I do remember how deftly you can shin up a tree.”
   He shifted, embarrassed.“A good valet is able to manifest the skills
the moment requires.”
   “A school of thought, I confess, I stole from you.”
   “And has the young master taken up the valet profession?”
   Detan flashed him a sharp smile.“If the occasion suits me.”
   “I had heard much to that effect.”
   He didn’t much like the idea of dwelling on just what, exactly, Gatai
had heard in the years after he’d escaped the Bone Tower and wandered
the Scorched in search of something – anything – to make him feel safe
and whole again. Something he still hadn’t found.
   “And we return to those marvelous ears of yours.”
   With firm pressure he guided Gatai down the paths he remembered were
little used in the palace, and after a moment’s observation Gatai
returned the pressure, easing Detan down hallways he didn’t recognize
that were blissfully empty. Detan could have kissed the man, if he
weren’t worried he’d cut his lips on that razor beard of his.
   “You have, perhaps, a particular sound you were considering?”
   “It has been a long time since I’ve been home,” his voice caught over
the final word, the word he’d been trying to keep out of his mind ever
since Thratia had forced him to watch the skyscape of Hond Steading roll
into view. “And I’m sure there have been many changes, many things I’vemissed. I have heard, for instance, that friends of mine stopped by in
my absence but were treated with poor care by my dear auntie. We know
she tries, of course, but running this city of ours can just be so
stressful.”
   His heart thundered so that he felt certain Gatai could hear the frantic
thump of it straight through all the layers of clothing Thratia had
draped him in. Some things just couldn’t be hidden by finery. This was
it. If Gatai brushed him off now, he’d know himself to be truly alone in
this palace that was meant to be his.
   “The Dame, great though her wisdom is, may have overreacted in the case
of your friends. Tensions are high in the city, of course.”
   “Of course,” Detan agreed quickly. “And I, as her devoted nephew, would
love the chance to explain to my friends that her hostility was not
cause for scorn…”
   Gatai was not leading him toward his rooms. Though he’d been gone years,
he’d scrambled up and down the steps to his suite of private rooms
countless times in his life. He knew, no matter where he was in the
palace, where his bed lay – like an extension of himself, a phantom
limb. His rooms had defined his world as long as he could remember, the
time of sharing a bed with his parents lost to the fuzzy memory of early
age. They had been his sanctuary. And Gatai was leading him in the other
direction.
   He tensed, preparing to push Gatai away should he need to free himself.“Has auntie moved my rooms?”
   “Not at all. But Cook Rachie has sweated all morning over your favorite
handpie, and I won’t see her effort gone to waste. The pantry, if you
remember, is this way, young master.”
   “I remember.”
   Which was, of course, an understatement. If his room had been his
sanctuary, the pantry had been his hideout. He didn’t care to remember
the amount of times Gatai had found him there as a young lad, escaping
punishment, or hiding away so that the staff of the palace would not see
his tear-puffed eyes. It was not exactly an auspicious place to hold a
meeting. But it was the quietest room in the palace, a place where a
young boy had once secreted himself away to cry and rail at the
frustrations of his mother’s illness.
   Gatai, that clever old goat. He had something to tell Detan. Something
he didn’t want half the household eavesdropping on.
   Buried beneath the palace, the pantry never quite shook off the cold of
the earth. Detan shivered, glad of the fine coat Thratia had given him–
then desired nothing more than to rip the garment off and set it alight.
He crossed his arms to still his hands while Gatai assured himself the
place was empty and the door securely latched.
   “This place has grown ears,” Gatai said.
   “That’s a biological impossibility.”
   “You know very well what I mean, young master.”
   Detan paced a tight circle around a fig barrel.“I expect no less from
my dear auntie and Thratia both. I’ve assumed myself eavesdropped upon
from the moment I…” Bent knee to Aella. He swallowed, waved away the
rest of his sentence as if it didn’t matter. “I am used to playing a
part, Gatai. Don’t worry about this rockbrain.”
   “You do not understand.” Gatai wrung his hands together, the most
worried gesture Detan’d ever seen from the usually composed chap. “It is
more than the usual listening – yes, and more than Thratia’s spies as
well. Ranalae has threaded her own people throughout the palace,
throughout thecity. Nothing happens here nor out there that she does
not know about. Young master, forgive me, but… What are your intentions
for Hond Steading?”
   Detan swallowed. He’d already been less than enthusiastic with Gatai
regarding his entanglement with Commodore Throatslitter, but to reveal
all just might see him bound by a noose instead of a wedding band.
Gatai’s forehead furrowed in worry, re-creasing familiar lines. Lines
Detan himself had given the poor man.
   “To see it safe.”
   “Define safe.” His old eyes hardened. He’d always made Detan say what he
meant, instead of his usual dance around the particulars.
   “No Thratia. No Ranalae.”
   “You?”
   “I would prefer my auntie continue as she has, until she no longer can.”
   “And then?”
   He hedged a glance toward the door, imagining the scuffle of feet, the
rustle of cloth as an ear pressed against the door. Paranoia, plain and
simple. The servants held this part of the house, and unless things had
changed drastically since Detan’s time, they were all fiercely loyal to
their keymaster.
   “I don’t know. I suppose I’ll ask the people, when it comes to that.”
   Gatai smiled slowly, and a tremble in his hands that Detan hadn’t
noticed before stilled. He was not asking Detan of his plans out of old
friendship, then. He was asking because he had a daughter. Trella. Detan
committed the name to memory.
   “I always knew there was more than gravel between those ears of yours,”
Gatai said.
   “Yeah, piss.”
   Gatai snort-chuckled and shook his head.“Language, young master. And be
assured, the staff here is with you in whole. None of us wish to see a
changeover in power, and we are all quite certain the majority of the
city feels the same way. No one wants a coup into the hands of the likes
of Ganal, or that Ranalae woman – she disturbs usall.”
   Detan went cold.“Has she harmed you, or any of the staff?”
   He shook his head.“Not to my knowledge. It is not what she’s done, so
much as…” he waved a hand. “The way she looks at the world. It is
difficult to articulate with care. Cook Rachie said she ‘gives her the
heebies’, and that is as succinct as I can make the matter.”
   “If she shows too great an interest in any of the staff, alert me
immediately.”
   Gatai bowed his head.“You have experience with this woman?”
   “Experience I would like to forget.” Detan shook off the shadowed claws
of Ranalae and pivoted focus to the slim glimmer of hope in his life.
“There are two women on theDread Wind, prisoners of Thratia’s
assistant, Aella. She has kept them as leverage against me and I – I
have promised to see them freed, if I can at all manage it. Their names
are Forge and Clink, and they are, to the best of my knowledge, the only
prisoners traveling with Thratia’s fleet. I need to find out where
they’rebeing held.”
   He bowed.“Consider it done. If they are in the palace, we will find
them.”
   Relief washed through him.“Thank you. I will need them both, if
anything I attempt to do here is to work.”
   “And what is it you will attempt to do?”
   Detan cast his gaze around the spacious pantry, taking in the barrels of
staples and delicacies both. Foodstuff that would soon be repurposed for
his wedding feast. At least the booze would be good, Auntie Honding
always stocked the best stuff. He blinked, staring at a barrel of mulled
cider, the edges of an idea taking shape in his mind.
   “I have a few options.” He flashed Gatai a grin, but the stodgy old man
seemed unimpressed. “Once you find the women, Gatai, if you could…” he
swallowed, fearful of asking. “Do you think it possible you could find
my friends? The ones auntie tried to lock in the Cinder?”
   Gatai frowned.“Searching outside the palace is more difficult,
especially for a group of people who have, no doubt, gone into hiding. I
will send feelers out, and let you know what is discovered. Do not pin
your hopes on the results, young master.”
   Detan sighed until he was completely deflated.“I am just so tired of
working alone.”
   Gatai squeezed his shoulder.“Young master, you’re not alone any more.”
   Chapter Thirty-Three
   Pelkaia dropped, feather-light, from the rope ladder dangling off the
side of theLarkspur and stifled a wince as her bones jolted from the
impact. Cursed city had to go and pave all its roads and walkways with
the stone they’d carved out to make room for homes. She missed the soft
dirt roads of Aransa. Bad for heavy carts, but at least they’d been kind
to her joints.
   Above her the crew of theLarkspur slept, and before her the nightlife
of Hond Steading thrummed. In the wake of the warden of Aransa’s death,
that city had gone quiet – the citizens scurrying to their homes as
quick as they could, doors locked and windows shuttered. This city, this
place that had remained independent from Valathea and had its own long
pride, went out to dance in the shadows of their invaders’ ships.
   Pelkaia prowled amongst them, wearing a stranger’s face. She’d gone to a
lot of trouble to get the set of her cheekbones just right, the tilt to
her eyes and the small pucker of her false lips, hair carefully scraped
back so that she didn’t have to worry about it brushing her skin. She’d
gone for forgettable, indistinct. But the truth was she couldn’t shake
the firmness of her walk, the confident lift of her shoulders.
   It wasn’t her own body language seeping through. She’d always been a
furtive woman, careful and secretive. Such things had been required to
survive as an illusionist so long in a society wherein that inborn
talent meant death.
   But something of Ripka Leshe had rubbed off on her, and she found she
didn’t want to shake it, though it made her illusions more difficult to
perfect.
   In every tavern, revelers toasted the health and good fortune of the
happy couple. A practice Pelkaia had no stomach for. She could not even
pretend to toast Thratia Ganal, even if it meant ingratiating herself
within a likely group. She paced the streets, looped round and round
neighborhoods, seeking a building with its lights on but a decidedly
more somber crowd.
   She found one at last, in a dark little corner of what she guessed to be
an artisan neighborhood. Bright lights gleamed in the windows, and
figures moved within, but with decidedly less pleasure. They sat hunched
over their glasses, not clinking them together nor shouting lewd cheers.
   Perfect.
   Pelkaia slipped inside, remembering to round her shoulders to look less
intimidating, and slouched her way over to an empty barstool. A few
glanced her way, but quickly wrote her off as beneath notice.
   The bartender gave her a sour look until she slid her a couple of copper
grains, then the woman shrugged and poured out what was probably a short
glass of cheap ale. Didn’t even say a word to her. Pelkaia’d never met a
quiet bartender in her life, but she didn’t mind. Gave her a chance to
listen in on the rumble of conversation in the room.
   Which was, decidedly, less positive than the rest of the city. No
surprise there– these weren’t exactly happy folk – but the glum tenor
she’d expected was laid over barely restrained anger. At the table
nearest her, a man with shoulders that’d barely fit through the door
clutched his mug like he was strangling a throat and didn’t bother to
keep his voice down.
   “I’d kill the bitch myself, given half the chance.”
   “Good fucking luck,” his friend said. “Don’t call her Throatslitter for
nothing.”
   “Fuuuck that. She think she can just roll over our city, sack up with
the Honding heir, and everything’s fucking grand? Everyone who’s not a
moron knows it’s a sham anyway. Ladies don’t usually show up for their
wedding days with a fleet and a big ass warship, do they?”
   “My kinda’ lady would.”
   “Yeah. But you’re an idiot.”
   Pelkaia let their bickering fall to the background as she considered her
options. This man was obviously no fan of Thratia’s – and by the looks
of him he was used to violence – but could she use him? He wasn’t a
deviant, but having some dumb muscle on hand might be useful.
   When the man wobbled for the door, Pelkaia trailed him on instinct,
sticking to the shadows and subtly altering her face each time she was
hidden so that he wouldn’t recognize her from the tavern.
   If the crew of theLarkspur wasn’t willing to bring arms against
Thratia, then she needed to find support elsewhere. This big bastard
seemed as good a place as any to start.— ⁂ —
   She tracked his wobbling steps to a dusty apartment complex, one of many
hunkered along the stone roads of Hond Steading. Such proud and foolish
people, to build so high out of stone when they lived so near to
firemounts. Not even the builders of Aransa were quite so arrogant as to
build over two stories of stone.
   While the man fumbled with the latch on his door, Pelkaia slipped around
the side of the building and hunkered in shadow, considering. To
approach the man now might be too forward– she would startle him, and
lose his trust.
   A hand closed around her arm.
   She jumped, wrenching herself free, and spun around, hands dropping to
the blades tucked beneath her jacket.
   Coss frowned at her out of the dark. He shoved his hands in his pockets,
shoulders hunched.“Pell. What in the skies are you doing?”
   She eased her hands away from her weapons, trembling slightly with the
flood of adrenaline, and smoothed her coat back in concealment.“Almost
stabbing you, apparently. Why are you following me?”
   He scowled.“Don’t evade the question.”
   “Seeking recruits, if you must know.”
   “That man a deviant?”
   She waved off the question.“I’m not sure.”
   His scowl was back in full force, his voice tight with restrained anger.“Just a random thug, then.”
   “Who wants to see Thratia out of his city. I think that’s fair enough.”
   “Brutes from off the street? Is that what we do now? Is that how you
plan to protect the people you claim to have saved, by dragging banal
muscle on board? What if he’s anti-deviant – did you even consider that?
We’re not exactly on stable footing here, Pell. The Dame tolerates us,
but there’s no telling how long that’ll last if the public gets wind.
Not a lot she could do against a mob.”
   “Exactly. We’re weak, we must strengthen our numbers–”
   “For what?”
   She clamped her mouth shut, almost bit straight through her tongue, and
grated,“You know what.”
   “Thratia. It’s always about thrice-cursed Thratia.”
   “She murdered myson.”
   He grimaced and stepped back from the force in her words.“I know. I
know. But that was a long time ago, and you have other charges now–”
   “Charges? Deviants, Coss. We’re all a bunch of fucking deviants. And
always will be, unless we tear down those who would label us as such.”
   “We talked about this. They’re not your soldiers.”
   “Which is why I’m out looking for willing hands! Yes, we did talk about
this, and I’ve listened – I’m trying something new, aren’t I? But you
cannot expect me to do nothing. Gods beneath the dunes, Coss, Thratia ishere, a half-mark’s walk away from where we stand. If I didn’t know
that palace was brimming with Aella and her lot I’d saunter right in and
take the woman’s head with my own hands. But I can’t, you know that. But
neither can I let this opportunity pass. She’sso close. Something
must be done.”
   “Must? And you would risk the whole crew to get your revenge?”
   “I never said–”
   He held up a fist.“You didn’t have to.” He sighed and shifted his
weight, tugging his coat close though the night was warm and held only a
gentle breeze. “Take the night, Pell. Think it through. We’re going to
have to talk to the crew, you and I, about all this.”
   “We? It’s my crew, Coss. My ship.”
   “Yeah,” he said, and the sadness in his eyes was a punch to her gut.
“And remember we can leave your ship any time we’d like.”
   “It’s safer for us all, there.”
   “Is it?”
   Before she could muster up an answer he turned and stomped back down the
alley he’d used to sneak up on her, heavy coat flapping at his dusty
heels.
   Pelkaia glared at the shadow of theDread Wind looming in the
cloud-streaked sky above the palace, spit in the dust, and went in
search of a room at an inn for the night.
   Chapter Thirty-Four
   Her name was Sasalai, and Ripka had come here to steal her and sell her
into slavery. Though most of the Honding staff lived in the palace,
Sasalai’s advanced age and long service had given her a home of her own
in the expensive palace district. A humble house, by local standards,
but a respectable construction of mudbrick faced in stone. A warm, clean
little place in which she had raised her children and, later, her
grandchildren.
   She lived alone, now. That would make the kidnapping easier.
   “I don’t like this,” Ripka whispered. She lounged alongside Enard on a
bench in a nearby park. The slight knoll in the rock garden’s center
gave them a clear view of Sasalai’s path home. Twilight settled on the
land like a blanket, bringing with it a soft northern breeze and a
brilliance of stars. The night was too lovely, too peaceful, to shelter
such horrendous work. Enard squeezed her hand, twining his fingers in
hers, and she squeezed back.
   “We won’t let them sell her off,” he whispered in return.
   “We can’t promise that.”
   “I am promising that.” His voice had a sharp edge to it that had been
seeping out more and more since their time together on the Remnant.
   “I believe you.”
   His shoulder eased against hers, tension releasing, and she leaned into
him, just a touch. If she closed her eyes, or glanced away from the
grandmother making her way home, Ripka could almost imagine them out to
experience the night together for kinder reasons. But that was a path
she dared not let her mind walk. Whatever grew between them, neither
could risk the entanglement now. Not with everything drawing so close,
so quickly. The slightest distraction could spell either of their
deaths.
   But it was nice to pretend, just for a little while.
   “Here they come,” Enard murmured.
   Tibal and Calson strolled down the path toward Sasalai, two well-to-do
gentlemen out for a midnight ramble. They slouched, gesturing broadly as
they pretended at some good-natured argument, looking for all the world
like they were meant to be there, like they were at ease. Tibal did,
anyway. To Ripka’s trained eye, Calson looked ready to bolt like a
sandrat in a hawk’s shadow.
   “He’s too tense.”
   Enard leaned forward, the muscles of his arm firm against hers.“She’ll
see through that.”
   “She’s a grandmother. Her eyesight might not be the best.”
   “She’s a grandmother who spent her whole life hiding a deviant ability
while working in the Honding family palace.”
   “Good point.” Ripka slipped her fingers free of Enard’s so that she
could settle them on the weapons at her waist. Not that she’d use any of
them – even the cudgel seemed exceptionally cruel on a woman as old as
Sasalai – but the threat of them might be enough to cow her.
   Might be, but probably wasn’t. In Ripka’s experience, grandmothers
feared nothing except running out of honey taffy.
   Sasalai’s persistent shuffling step slowed as she approached the
gentlemen strollers. Her arm tightened around the cloth sack slung
across her chest and shoulders. She thought them raucous youth, Ripka
decided. Possible thieves, definite annoyances, but nothing more
troubling than that. She leaned on her cane, tightening her grip in
silent threat or anxiety – Ripka couldn’t tell.
   Ripka held her breath as the men approached, biting back a cry of
warning. This moment was the very type of thing she’d trained most of
her life to stop. She tried to tell herself this was little more than a
demonstration, of sorts. The woman would be fine. Enard had promised her
that, and Tibal would never cause her harm. But Calson was down there
too, a wild card she did not know, and her teeth clenched and ground as
the distance closed.
   Tibal swayed, affecting drunkenness, and bumped Calson hard in the side.
Calson stumbled sideways toward the woman, arms outstretched to right
himself. A brown arc flashed through the air, the heavy crack of bone
echoing over the sharp edge of a cry. Ripka was on her feet in an
instant, Enard at her side, pounding down the knoll toward the scene.
   It took her a moment to process. Calson lay on the road, curled up in a
knot, both hands clasped around a shin that looked… Wrong. Ripka’s
stomach clenched as she realized the bone had been neatly bisected under
the lash of Sasalai’s cane, the skin intact but the limb itself clearly
stepped down in one spot.
   “Fiery pits.” She skidded to a stop on the dusty road and dropped to one
knee beside Calson while Enard looped around to help Tibal restrain the
struggling granny.
   “How bad is it?” Calson hissed through his teeth. His people crept
toward them, hesitant steps shuffling on the dirt as they peeled
themselves from their hiding places. Tibal and Enard had the woman well
in hand, her mouth stuffed with a gag and her hands tied. If her glare
had been able to cut, it would have, but for the moment she was
restrained.
   Ripka peeled one of his hands away and tried not to let her shock show
as she examined the break.“The skin’s not broken,” she said, the most
positive comment she could muster, “but you need an apothik.”
   “Shit shit shit,” he groaned, and thumped the back of his head against
the road.
   “You.” Ripka jabbed a finger at the buck-toothed woman. “Do you know
where the nearest apothik is?”
   “Just down Lighten Way,” she said.
   “Good, then you lot,” she waved a hand at all those approaching. “Get a
litter together to carry your boss, will you? Sooner this gets set, the
better his chances of survival.”
   “Survival?” Calson asked, all the color draining from his face.
   “Broken bones are dangerous.” She mustered all the gravity she could and
layered it thick into her voice. Clearly this man hadn’t experienced so
much as a cut requiring a stitch in all his life.
   Enard, that beautiful man, was quick to catch on to her plan.“Hurry
up,” he said, stripping his jacket off. “Take my coat, it’s long enough.
If one of you grabs each corner, you should be able to carry him.”
   “But what about the mark?” Buck-toothed asked, squeezing Enard’s jacket
between her fingers.
   “Kill her,” Calson growled.
   “Hasty,” Ripka chided. She pushed to her feet while the others
hesitantly set about laying out Enard’s coat and rolling the writhing
man onto it. “The job still holds. Dranik knows where to find your
contact. Don’t worry, we’ll get her there.”
   Wariness lined Calson’s face, but shattered under pain as they jostled
him onto the coat. “If she fights you–”
   “I have her,” Tibal said, letting his disgust with Calson’s need for
revenge show plain as a clear sky.
   Calson sneered, but whether it was due to pain or Tibal, Ripka couldn’t
tell.
   “Aren’t you glad you brought us on after all?” Enard said, flashing
Calson a smile, and that time he definitely did sneer.
   “Hurry, he’s looking too pale,” Ripka threw in, just to get Calson to
shut up and get his lackeys moving. With nervous glances all around, the
awkward litter-bearers shuffled off with their wounded boss, throwing
glances back over their shoulders at Ripka all the way. She had to
resist an urge to flash them a rude gesture.
   “Well,” Enard said once the others were out of earshot. “That worked out
well.”
   The old woman scowled around at them all.
   “We should probably get off the main street, anyone could see,” Dranik
piped up. Sweat dotted his forehead despite the cool night air.
   “Which way then, lad?” Tibal drawled, and the color came back into
Dranik’s cheeks full force as he flushed with embarrassment. “Right.
Right. This way.”
   He angled toward the south end of the park, a narrow little lane Ripka
had scouted on her way in and found mostly deserted at this time of
night. A good enough move for now. She allowed herself to relax, just
slightly, eyeing the woman Tibal led along by her bound wrists. She
wanted to peel that gag from her lips, to explain herself and her
friends– to tell the woman she was safe, and that her only trouble
tonight was a bit of momentary discomfort and fright. But, despite
Enard’s confidence, Ripka was not so sure. They needed inroads to
Thratia’s network, and every time you knocked on that woman’s door you
risked losing the hand you knocked with.
   “Who is this contact, anyway?” she asked as they padded along the dark
lane.
   “We don’t know her name,” Dranik said, “she’s called the Songstress.”
   “Fuck,” Ripka said.
   Chapter Thirty-Five
   Detan told himself he wasn’t hiding. He was regrouping, settling in,
recovering, preparing himself for what was to come.
   He’d never hide when there was work to be done. No, not Detan Honding.
   He pulled a blanket over his head, and stared at the false stars his
adjusting eyes made of the light seeping through the fabric. He breathed
deep of the musky-warm aroma of the blanket. The harsh soaps of his
childhood filtered through to him, reminded him of sneaking through the
laundry rooms as a child for a hint of what went on in that mysterious,
steamy place. And the memory of being cuffed on the back of the head for
getting in the washers’ way.
   Bundled away in his old bed, the mattress permanently dented in a shape
that was much like his own, only smaller, he could pretend for a while
that stealing a sweet pie was going to be the greatest adventure of his
day.
   But then reality had to go and ruin it all.
   In the hall outside his door footsteps picked up as the lunch hour grew
near. The whole staff of the palace must be bending their backs to
accommodate the sudden influx of Thratia’s entourage. The longer he lay
here, the sooner someone important would come and find him. Thratia,
Aella, Auntie Honding. He tried to imagine which one it would be, or who
would send a servant first to collect him, and decided to the pits with
waiting around for that.
   Detan threw the blankets off himself and swung his feet to the ground.
He yanked his boots on and tugged his charcoal jacket straight, running
a hand through his hair to set it to rights.
   He opened the door, and damn near tripped over Misol.
   “Come to invite me to tea?” he asked.
   She looked naked without her spear, hands folded defensively across her
ribs. At least his auntie had put her foot down about Thratia’s people
running around the house while openly armed.
   “Aella wants you.”
   “And do you just hop right up and do whatever she asks?”
   She cocked her head to the side.“She’s my boss.”
   “She’s your jailer.”
   Misol bared her teeth at him, but said nothing.
   “Make no mistake, she’s mine, too.”
   “Thought that was Thratia.”
   “Had to tell where one begins and the other ends.”
   “Honding,” Misol’s voice took on a hard edge. “Are you going to make
this difficult for me, or will you shut your trap and come along?”
   “I’ll come, but I can make no guarantees about the state of my trap.”
   “Marvelous.” She stalked off down the hall. Detan pattered along like a
good little prisoner, chafing at being ordered about in what was meant
to be his own house. Never mind that being in control of anything at the
moment was an illusion. He still had his ego to think of, after all.
   Misol led the way to a wing of the palace generally reserved for the
most important guests his family hosted, and Detan grew more annoyed
with each step he took. Sure, Thratia deserved to be put up with a bit
of polish, but Aella? That little monstress was likely to leave a few
bloodstains on his auntie’s nicest carpets. She was more suited to a
dungeon than a suite.
   He recalled the narrow tower Thratia had purpose built in her compound
for his arrival, and winced. Maybe it was better that his auntie treated
her like a normal guest. At least a regular room was less likely to give
him a case of the shivers.
   And wow, had his auntie ever put Aella up in splendor. Each step they
took Detan noted the change in decor, and dredged up old memories of
this wing. If Misol wasn’t lost, Aella’d been tucked away in one of the
nicest rooms in the place. Probably even nicer than what his auntie had
handed over to Ranalae, and that made him grin. If Aella was being
over-honored, at least Ranalae was being insulted in the process.
   Misol knocked once on a door at the end of the hall and swung it open
before waiting for a response. Detan’s power fled him, a numb, wooly
feeling indicative of Aella’s will taking its place. He stepped
hesitantly into the room, wondering what fresh nightmare Aella had
created to test him now, and choked on a scream.
   Aella sat in a high-backed chair at a small round table, glancing over
the gilded rim of a teacup to the woman who sat beside her. Ranalae.
Their postures were mirrored, elegant and firm, but while Aella glanced
to Ranalae, that woman’s gaze was locked tight on Detan. At their feet,
Callia huddled, the silver chain which Aella used to guide her puddled
between her shoulder blades.
   Detan turned, heart thundering, but Misol barred his way, her sturdy
frame filling the doorway. She caught his eye, held it, and there was
something like regret in her expression. Whole fucking lot of good her
regret would do for him now.
   “Leaving so soon?” Ranalae mused.
   Detan breathed slowly, deeply, straightened himself, and turned to face
them both.“What do you want from me?”
   Ranalae inclined her head to an empty seat at the prim little table.“Sit.”
   Hers was not a voice he was accustomed to disobeying. He sat.
   Chapter Thirty-Six
   During Aransa’s fall, the streets had gone quiet as grainmice, the
people locked away inside their homes until the bulk of the conflict was
over. Hond Steading was handling things a bit… differently. People
crowded the streets, drinking and reveling, throwing rude gestures at
the ships that shadowed their sky and singing even ruder songs to toast
their new ruling couple. Ripka found she much rather preferred Hond
Steading’s method of coping. At least with all the confusion on the
streets, their little party was less conspicuous.
   “You’re certain this woman is the contact?” she asked Dranik.
   He threw her an insulted glance.“The other night…” He cleared his
throat. “Yes. That is who we brought the last one to.”
   The last, and the first, as far as Dranik’s group was concerned. But how
many other deviants had Thratia’s network scraped up and delivered into
the songstress’s hands?
   “The woman who sings at the Ashfall Lounge?” she pressed again. Dranik
let loose an irritated sigh.
   “Yes, the very same.”
   Enard kept stealing glances at her, sensing her agitation. She debated
telling them what she knew, that the woman who sang at the Ashfall
Lounge was Laella, the young Valathean girl that had come to Hond
Steading on Pelkaia’s ship.
   She was supposed to be one of Pelkaia’s rescues, a noble girl who came
into her deviant ability in her late teens and hid them well enough,
until rumors began to leak and Pelkaia came knocking. She was adept at
her craft, one of Pelkaia’s fastest learners, but Pelkaia’s prejudices
against Valatheans weren’t an easy thing to hide. Even in the short time
Ripka had been aboard theLarkspur, the tension between those two had
been palpable.
   “Care to share your troubles?” Tibal asked. She flinched. While she’d
felt Enard’s curiosity, she’d been oblivious to Tibal’s sly
observations.
   “Just questions,” she said by way of explanation.
   “Maybe you should let us help you chew them over.”
   That was fair enough. Tibal had proved she could trust him, and she
doubted Dranik would understand half of the implications.“The
Songstress is Laella Eradin.”
   “Whoa,” Tibal said. “You sure?”
   “Saw her myself.”
   “When was this?” Enard asked.
   “I looped around the back of the Lounge to shake the watchers after
Dranik set them chasing us. She was on the back patio, half in costume,
smoking.”
   Tibal whistled low.“Pelkaia’s got herself a leak.”
   “Or Thratia’s network has already been compromised.”
   “Who are these people?” Dranik asked.
   “Deviants working to get other deviants to safety.” Ripka flicked her
gaze to Sasalai, whose brows were raised high in curiosity. She’d
stopped dragging her feet, and leaned more easily on the cane Tibal kept
tucked carefully under the woman’s arm. She should be terrified, but she
appeared a strange combination of pissed off and intrigued. Ripka
thought she’d like the woman, under different circumstances.
   “And this Laella person works for Pelkaia?” Dranik frowned so deeply in
thought that Ripka imagined his lips might slip clear off his face.
   “Honestly? At this point, I have no idea. But we’re about to find out.”
   The Ashfall Lounge was empty for the evening. A little light filtered
through the upstairs windows, seeping out around the edges of pulled
curtains. Someone was home, someone who was making it pretty clear they
didn’t want any company.
   “Rules say we go around back and knock the pattern,” Dranik said.
   Enard gestured the way.“After you then, sir.”
   Dranik quirked a brow at his use of“sir”, but crossed the distance
anyway, leading them through the burnt-out remains that gave the theater
its sense of danger. He knocked three times, a rather boring pattern in
Ripka’s opinion, and they waited tense as rockcats.
   The door swung open, and the Songstress stood there in her full get-up,
wig and all, but now that Ripka knew what she was looking for the girl
couldn’t hide her face.
   Laella drew a deep drag from her cigarillo, flicked ash to the floor,
and gave the party on her doorstep a long, appraising look. After a
moment, she sighed and shook her head.
   “I should have known this would happen after you saw me on the patio.
Can’t let a mystery lie still, can you, Captain?”
   “‘Fraid not,” Ripka said.
   “Well, you’d all better come in and have a chat. Is this the deviant?”
She tipped her chin to the gagged grandmother.
   “No, this is how I treat all my friends.”
   Tibal snorted behind her, and Laella narrowed her eyes.“You spent too
much time with that Honding man. Now get in, before you’re seen, will
you?”
   Ripka didn’t much like the idea of entering Laella’s lair without
knowing the girl’s motives, but she could hardly quibble with her logic.
   “After you,” she said, and Laella rolled her eyes as she spun around,
leading them all into the dreary half-light of the theater’s back rooms.
   Chapter Thirty-Seven
   An empty third cup waited by Detan’s seat at the table, and he was proud
his hands did not shake as he poured the pricklebrush tea into it. Misol
stationed herself by the door, a threatening phantom, her hands loose at
her sides though he could make out no weapon on her body. Not that she
needed one. Detan wasn’t exactly handy with, well, his hands, and Aella
had his sel-sensitivity locked down tight. That lockdown, more so than
the presence of Ranalae, made his skin crawl. Whatever was about to
happen here, Aella wanted to be certain Detan couldn’t fight it. Which
was pretty rude of her, considering all the time she’d put into honing
his abilities.
   “It issuch a pleasure to see you again, my lord. I hope your time in
the Scorched has treated you well?” Ranalae smiled at him over the rim
of her cup, all polite formality. Detan wanted to smash her smug face
into the table between them, but he forced a cheery smile and put on his
hapless-lord persona. He was not about to let her beat him at his own
game.
   “I find the wide-open skies suit me better than tower walls.”
   She flashed him a toothy grin.“Such a pity. I had hoped you might come
to enjoy my little tower. We were just beginning to know one another,
before you took an early leave of my hospitality.”
   Detan raised his cup to her.“Your hospitality, it must be said, has
improved some since those days.”
   “Oh, dear boy, I think you’ll find it hasn’t. Aella has been telling meso much about the progress you’ve made.”
   He shot the girl a sharp glance.“Traitor.”
   She rolled her small shoulders.“Oh please, you can’t be that forgetful.
I am, as I’ve told you, only interested in what I might learn.”
   “Your little friend here was preparing to vivisect me, last I saw her.”
   Aella frowned delicately.“Well, we can’t havethat. You’re no use to
anyone dead.”
   “Certain conclusions can be drawn from corpses,” Ranalae corrected with
the same casualness as if she were discussing the weather. “But I find
your methods thus far fascinating. This injection of Callia’s devising,
what does it do for the deviant?”
   Detan cleared his throat.“The deviant is right here, you know. You
could ask him.”
   Aella inclined her head.“The injection does not work for me. His
experience may be more valuable than my observations.”
   Aella had tried the injections, and they did not work. It took all his
long-practiced control to hide his shock. At least he hadn’t been
Callia’s first test subject. Pits only knew what went on between those
two before they’d apprehended him, and Aella clearly held no love for
her adopted mother, as the withered form at her feet attested.
   Aella’s self-assurance, her cool distance and easy taunts. If Callia had
done to Aella half of what Ranalae had done to him, then… Then he could
not find it within himself to blame her for the way she treated Callia.
   “Well?” Ranalae prompted. “If you are here, then explain. What does the
injection do for you?”
   “Increases my irritation with pushy bitches.”
   That was probably not the smartest thing he’d ever said. Aella coughed
to hide a strangled chuckle, but Ranalae was too busy glaring needles
through Detan’s eyes to notice.
   “Manners, please, my lord.”
   “Manners?” He stared at the teacup in his hand, at the crisp line of his
sleeves’ cuffs, so thoughtfully lined in flame-orange. He might be used
to playing a part, to putting on a face and dancing to the tune. But
usually he set the tune. And this… This twisted mirror of a tea party
was just too much.
   There was no thought to his impulse. He crushed the teacup in his hands,
felt the satisfying give of the polished material shatter beneath his
fingers. Hot tea spilled over them, trickled down his palm and forearm,
scalding, blending with the blood small lacerations drew forth from his
hand.
   “Fuck your manners.”
   Misol moved, but for once in his life Detan was faster. He grabbed the
table by its lip and flipped it while he burst to his feet.
   “Restrain him,” Aella snapped as she stood and brushed streaks of spilt
tea from her robes.
   “Stop,” Detan growled. Misol hesitated, hands up, ready to grapple him
into submission. But Detan wasn’t moving toward either woman. He made
his body language peaceful, inert. Let the anger in his expression do
what he needed it to do to let the women who surrounded him know he was
having none of their shit.
   “Enough of this pageantry. You brought me here for a reason, Aella,
brought me here to meet with this – this monster – to what purpose?
Let’s get this horror show over with, and you two both stop pretending
you’re anything but the twisted specks of humanity you really are.”
   “Well,” Ranalae tsked. She stepped away from the flipped table and stood
with her hands on her hips, surveying the damage to her room’s decor
with a mild pout of annoyance. She had the look of a woman whose pet had
just pissed on the rug. “I thought you had learned control.”
   “Control and patience aren’t always bedfellows.”
   “Clearly.” Aella shook her head and picked her way around the wreckage
to pat a whimpering Callia on the head. The gentle stroking of the
desiccated woman’s hair made Detan’s stomach lurch. “We had better
begin, then, since the subject is so eager.”
   Despite his bravado, Detan’s mouth went dry. “Does Thratia know about
this?”
   Ranalae said,“My dear, she does not care.”
   Selium he could not sense while Aella kept him locked down poured from
Ranalae’s sleeves, a neat little trick that he suspected was part of the
latest Valathean fashion. He stepped back as the cloud billowed toward
him, the raw glimmer temporarily blinding him.
   “When did he last have his injection?” Ranalae asked. He could only see
pieces of her now, a flesh of arm, a curve of a cheek, through the
swathe of selium coalescing around him. He wanted to scream, to swat it
back, but he knew that they wanted him to fight. Knew that, to test his
control, they were going to make him suffer. Damned evil thing, having
your deviant sensitivity tied to your anger. He wished his mother would
have lived long enough to tell him how she dealt with their burden.
   “Right before we left for Hond Steading. I wanted to test how long the
effects would last, and his ability without regular maintenance.”
   “Hmm, interesting. You have the capability to make more with you?”
   “Of course. I have a fresh vial on me, in fact.”
   “Wonderful.”
   He could scarcely hear them over the thundering of his heart. The
realization came to him, rather belatedly, that he had not had much
direct interaction with Ranalae in the Bone Tower. He had no idea what
her sel-sensitivity was like– deviant, or imperial standard. If she
were deviant, than the sel getting close and personal with him now was
real bad news.
   He opened his mouth to protest, to ramble, to stall whatever was about
to happen, and choked as sel poured down his throat.
   “Ah, there we go,” Ranalae said. “Knew he couldn’t keep from speaking
for long. Are you prepared?”
   “I am.”
   “Trigger Callia now, please?”
   “Certainly.”
   Detan clawed the air in front of him, indistinct wisps of selium
tickling the fine hairs on his hands, the aching cuts in his palm fading
now as his mind burst with panic. They would not kill him here, he told
himself. Not intentionally.
   But all his calming techniques had been stripped from him– his deep
breaths, his distracting banter. His coping methods crumbled around him
and he wanted to scream but the breath just wouldn’t come and he fell to
one knee, eyes bulging, clawing at the ground as if he could dig his way
to clear air. Nails bent back, cuts opened wider, a little pool ofslick
blood spread beneath his hands and he’d be pits-cursed if he wouldn’t
rather be drowning in that than sel and he tried, tried so damn hard, to
open his senses. To grasp the sel being shoved inside him and rip it out
and bore it straight through Ranalae’s thrice-cursed eyes and oh holy
fuck he was going to die here bug-eyed and useless and what was the
fucking point after all–
   Callia’s ability hit him.
   Perversion. That was what she was. Long before Aella’s poisons had
reduced her to a withered husk of a woman, Callia’s deviant ability had
been the corruption of everything good – an extension of herself, if
Aella’s theory of deviancy was true – and the poison had only
concentrated that vileness.
   He roiled with it. Every muscle in his body twitched and shuddered and
clenched and cramped as his body fought against what Callia did to the
selium inside him. It was not changed, not fundamentally, and he kept on
telling himself that but all his body knew was that the selium inside
him was now poison– rot and bile and decay – and he had to get it out.
   His throat spasmed as he tried to scream though he had no air to do it
with. Limbs he only vaguely recognized as his own twitched and writhed
on the floor he’d bloodied.
   He was dying and he knew it and something inside him broke.
   A fire in his veins. Fire that was not his, had never really been his,
that simply coexisted with him because it had no choice, burned within
him hotter than anything he’d ever felt in his entire life. Some distant
part of him wondered if this was the fire that had eaten his mother up –
not bonewither, not after all – and was silenced. The fire would not die
with him. It wanted release, and Detan was a whole pits-lot stronger
than anyone had ever expected.
   Aella’s will held his sel-sense in check, that part of him that he had
mastered, in a sphere of influence. He was aware of her range now as if
it were his own, as if he could see a fine gleam of a soapy bubble
wrapping them both, keeping him from affecting any selium within its
volume.
   But Detan’s sphere, the fire’s sphere, was bigger. A lot bigger.
   He fought it as he realized what was happening, what was going to
happen. Clamped down on everything that he was, everything that he could
be. But his body panicked and reached without his consent and–
   Screaming. Curses. The floor juddered under him, the thunderous crack of
stone filled the air and not just nearby– it was heavy and hollow and
huge. And the whoomph of what came next shook him to his very bones.
   The selium withdrew in a rush, the perversion with it, and all his
strength fled.
   He lay limp and shuddering, overworked muscles pinging and twitching
with jelly-soft weakness. For once, just once, his mind was truly blank,
as if everything that he was had been siphoned free, drained out in that
one terrible moment.
   “What have you done?” Aella demanded. Her small hands grabbed his
shoulders and shook him until his eyes slid open. Real fear etched her
young face. He’d never seen anything like it before.
   He tried to say something, anything, but his mouth was mealy and his
lips wouldn’t obey. Misol crouched at his side, grabbed a fistful of his
too-fancy coat and dragged him to his limp feet. He wanted to fall,
everything in his body wanted to fall, but she wouldn’t let him. She
shoved him along until his hips rammed into a windowsill.
   Ranalae stood next to him at that window, her fingers clutching the rail
as she leaned forward to see better. If he had any strength left in him,
he would have pushed her out.
   “I had him shut down!” Aella protested against reality, stomping her
small foot.
   People were running in the halls. The air tasted of ash. He squinted
against the light, too dark for the hour, and saw–
   The firemount nearest the palace had awoken. Grey soot spilled from its
mouth, illuminated from underneath by the orange-red smear of molten
rock. Same color as his cuffs, he thought bitterly. Thratia had gotten
that much right.
   The echo of its awakening thrummed in him still. A pocket of selium,
near to the conical plug, had been his target, and now the people at the
base of that firemount were paying for Ranalae’s experiments. He wanted
to ask how bad it was – if there was anything he could do, anything at
all, that might help, but his mouth still wouldn’t work and it was
getting really hard to keep his eyes open.
   “Beautiful,” Ranalae murmured.
   Detan vowed to make her suffer as he slipped into unconsciousness.
   Chapter Thirty-Eight
   Ripka was less comfortable with the stability of the upstairs floor than
she was with the entire situation. Every step they took the boards
creaked in protest, and some of the steps up to the second floor swayed
alarmingly. By the time they reached Laella’s office, she was sweating,
and it had nothing at all to do with the mild weather.
   “This place is a deathtrap,” Ripka said.
   Laella threw herself backward into an overstuffed chair, arms splayed
out across the cushions, and shrugged.“It was what I could afford, and
the natural ambiance is a draw for the well-to-dos around here. They
feel like they’re getting away with something, even though the place is
legally owned. I’m no squatter.”
   “This is all fascinating,” Tibal said, “but could we perhaps discuss the
deviant in the room?”
   All gazes turned to Sasalai, who was looking a touch peaky. Ripka shooed
Laella out of the only seat and eased the older woman into it. She
looked grateful, but Ripka still made sure to move her cane out of
striking distance before getting too close.
   “This deviant in particular, or deviants as a whole?” Laella plucked her
wig from her head and tossed it onto a stand on the room’s only table.
   “Laella,” Ripka said, and watched the girl cringe at the use of her real
name. “Stop dancing around. Get to the point already. What are you doing
here? Are you working with Thratia?”
   She flicked her gaze to Dranik and chewed the corner of her lip.
   “He’s fine. He’s with us,” Ripka said.
   Laella let out one long, drawn-out sigh and slumped against the wall
with her hands folded across her stomach.“Listen, it didn’t take me
long to figure out what was going on at the bright eye berry cafes after
we arrived here, all right? I knew Thratia was working through them
somehow, or at least using them as a way to collect people sympathetic
to her cause, so I went poking around. Turns out, looking like a posh
Valathean gets you some cred.” She flashed a bright smile. “And it was
easy enough to twist a few arms into thinking I was in tight with our
dear commodore. Once I’d delivered a few likely ‘messages’ from the girl
on high, I started changing tack. Asking for things – supplies and such
for a stockpile, I claimed. Eventually I hit upon the idea to use them
to snag the local deviants out from under the empire. Look, I know it’s
messy, but–”
   “You don’t work for Thratia Ganal? At all?” Dranik’s jaw hung open, his
eyes wide as saucers.
   Laella sniffed and tossed her hair.“I’d rather lick a shit-smeared
shoe.”
   “Skies above,” he murmured. Enard gave him an awkward pat on the
shoulder. Ripka wasn’t feeling quite so charitable.
   “So I spent the last couple of days working to get close to Pelkaia’s
network? Pits below, why didn’t you lot tell me what you were up to? I
could have helped.”
   “Uh, yeah, about that.” She twisted an already braided chunk of hair
around one finger. “Pelkaia doesn’t know about any of this.”
   Tibal whistled low.
   “It’s not like that,” Laella insisted. “I’m not selling them or
anything. I found a place, a safe place, for them to live, and used my
resources to set up a system to get them there. Valathean-founded cities
just aren’t safe for deviants any more.”
   “And theLarkspur isn’t a safe place?” Ripka prodded.
   Laella winced.“I… don’t know. Pelkaia hasn’t been herself, lately.
She’s ill, but she’s trying to hide it, and Coss isn’t… well, he’s
pretending everything’s all right, and it’s not. She can’t stop talking
about putting an end to Thratia, which is well enough, but her level of
obsession isn’t. We didn’t sign up to be soldiers.” She glanced to
Sasalai. “And I don’t think anyone should be conscripted just because
they’re deviant and have nowhere else to go.”
   “Perhaps we should ask Sasalai what she wants, now that her ability has
been discovered,” Ripka said.
   Tibal took a knee before the elderly woman, his hands braced on the arms
of her chair, and tried his best to look contrite.
   “Now, ma’am, you know we’re not here to harm you. Your deviant sel-sense
has been discovered – not just by us – and we want to keep you safe. I
know it wasn’t right of us, grabbing you like we did, but if you’d like
to hear us explain it all we will. I can promise you this: no one in
this room means you harm.” He half-turned over his shoulder. “Isn’t that
right?”
   A chorus of agreement all around. The woman’s eyes softened, just a
touch, but as Tibal reached for her, her back stiffened and she leaned
away, angling herself out of his reach. Ripka shook her head.
   “You’ve got her pinned there. Here, shoo.” She nudged Tibal away from
the woman and stepped around behind her, sliding her thumbs under the
knot on the gag to keep it from tugging too much against the woman’s
face as she wriggled the knot loose. She’d done the maneuver enough
times as a watch-captain, it came easily to her now, though she was out
of practice.
   “You’ll feel a slight tug–”
   The floorboards shook, jarring her hands. Shouts echoed from the bottom
floor of the theater, deep and controlled– a pattern she recognized.
   “What is this?” Laella snapped, springing toward the door. Ripka grabbed
her elbow and yanked her back.
   “Watchers,” she hissed, low so that she wouldn’t be overheard. “Stay
quiet. Don’t step heavily, all of you. Laella, is there another way out
of here?”
   Her eyes were huge. Skies above, the girl was so young. Stupidly brave,
for doing what she’d done. Brave and bold and reckless, assured in her
own success. She had probably never even considered the possibility of
being caught. From the look in her eye, she was considering the
consequences in depth, now.
   “There’s a fire ladder outside the window,” she whispered almost too low
for Ripka to make out.
   Thank the skies for that.“Tibal, can you handle Sasalia’s weight? Enard
will go down first, and I’ll be last out.”
   Enard frowned at this, but did not protest. The two of them were the
only hands in the room with any real fighting experience, and things
could get messy on the ground just as easily as they could in this room.
   “I have her,” Tibal said.
   Sasalai yanked her gag the rest of the way free.
   Laella gasped, Tibal lunged for the woman, but it was done so quickly
the scream was out of her lips before Tibal’s legs had even begun to
move.
   “Up here! Help! Help!” Sasalai’s lungs were surprisingly robust for her
age. The stamp of footsteps turned their way immediately, pounding up
the stairs. Ripka had only a moment to stare at the woman, who risked
being hanged if her ability were discovered, before the watchers burst
through the door.
   “Hands high! All of you!” a sturdy male voice she was grieved to
recognize bellowed.
   Ripka lifted her hands to the air, fingers splayed, as all the others
did, and turned, slowly, to face Watch-captain Lakon. His eyes bulged.
She really couldn’t blame him.
   “Leshe?” he asked, bewildered. The crossbows pointed at her chest from
his flanking watchers, however, did not waver.
   “Long story.” She tried an embarrassed smile, but his expression just
hardened into a firm mask.
   “I’ll have it all from you, then. Restrain them.”
   The watchers of Hond Steading were quick to act on their captain’s
orders. They flowed into the room, filling it with blue, and made no
comment as they went about binding the wrists of everyone save Sasalai,
and divesting them of weapons.
   “Are you all right, ma’am?” Lakon picked up Sasalai’s cane and offered
it to her. She took it in trembling hands.
   “They kidnapped me.”
   Ripka bit back a protest as Lakon threw her a questioning glance.“I
see. Can you walk? We’ll need you to give a full statement at the
station house.”
   “Boy, I’d sprint to the station to file this complaint. I’ve never been
so rudely manhandled in my life.”
   Lakon helped the woman to her feet and handed her off to the care of a
watcher, keeping his own crossbow ready at his side as they ushered the
group down the creaking steps, one at a time– it seemed Lakon was just
as wary of the building’s construction as Ripka – and out into the
night.
   She took in the area on instinct. Low light, little to no foot traffic,
plenty of twisting streets and vague garden walls and alleys to obscure
her way with. If she zig-zagged, and used the alleys and rock walls,
she’d be nearly impossible to hit with that crossbow. But then, there
were the others, and she couldn’t be certain they’d be so lucky.
Couldn’t be sure Laella would even think to run if they all made a dash
for it. She told herself she’d escaped from worse situations – near
death on the Black Wash, the fortress of the Remnant. But each of those
times, she’d had help coming for her: Detan.
   Detan was in the city now, but she very much doubted he’d be of any help
to her this time around.
   She grit her teeth and glared at her feet, struggling to work up a plan.
   For the second time that night, the ground shook. She blinked at her
feet, wondering for just a moment if she were going mad or about to
faint. Little plumes of dust swirled around her toes, and gravel
jittered against her boots.
   Slowly, reluctantly, she lifted her head and looked around. Everyone was
scanning the buildings, the sky, looking for the reason why the ground
had shrugged and shuddered, then fallen still.
   A crack broke the night, louder than anything she’d ever heard – ever
felt – in her life. It slammed her ears and vibrated her teeth, made her
heart jump with fear. The watchers spun in uneasy circles, seeking the
threat, eyeing the fleet of ships which blotted the sky with wary eyes.
   Enard said,“There.”
   They all turned to his voice, followed the line of his sight.
   An orange smear bled across the underside of the clouds, seeping out
from the eastern ridge of the largest firemount’s puckered mouth. Ripka
went cold, straight to the bones, her stomach dropping out from under
her.
   She’d never seen anything like it before, but she knew what it was
instinctively. Had been told scary stories of such a thing as a child.
   The ground shakes. The firemounts crack open their mouths. And then, the
fire. The soot and the smoke and the boiling, pooling ash.
   People screamed, ran from homes, watched horror-eyed through their
windows, knowing that if the flow was coming their way they were already
dead. The stories were pretty strict about that: once you’d seen it, it
was already over.
   “How…” Lakon trailed off, leaving his mouth half-open on the aborted
sentence.
   The largest firemount of Hond Steading had been dormant as long as there
had been a city here. This should not be happening. But, of course, the
records were imprecise, and firemounts unpredictable.
   Pearlescent wisps drifted in the orange glow of the lava, flickering out
as they dissipated, consumed by some internal fire. Selium. Burning.
   Tibal hissed through his teeth. Ripka went stiff all over.
   Not a natural event, then, if the talents a man were born with could be
disconnected from nature. Detan had done that. Someone had pushed Detan
to do that. Which was, in a way, a good thing. This was not a complete
eruption event. He must have blown a pocket near the surface of the
firemount’s mouth, and that glow… It could be lava. It could be fire
from Detan’s handiwork. There was no way to tell for sure.
   What she was sure of, however, was the drumbeat rumble of stone
cascading down the side of the firemount, toward the eastern edge of the
palace and its connected residential quarter.
   “Those people will need help,” she said, struggling to keep from
sprinting toward the destruction with every crash that echoed through
the night. Screams rose up to meet those breaking noises, and they
jarred her all the way through. They could not just stand there.
   Lakon frowned. He lowered the crossbow and tugged at his mustache, gaze
stuck on the cloud of dust rising from the falling rocks.
   “Protocol says we wait for the dust to settle. Could walk into a
pyroclastic flow.”
   “This is not an eruption event,” Ripka snapped. “And those people can’t
wait.”
   “What in the pits else could it be?”
   Tibal threw her a sharp look that she ignored.“I know Thratia, and I
know her weapons. That was not an eruption.”
   Lakon chewed his lip while his watchers shifted uneasily, eyeing the
destruction.
   “Those people need help…” a young female watcher said.
   Lakon closed his eyes and leaned his crossbow against his leg so that he
could rub the heels of his palms against his eyelids. He blew air
through his nose so hard his mustache puffed outward.
   “I know you, Captain, or of you, anyway. I don’t know what was happening
here tonight, but, no one appears hurt–” Sasalai opened her mouth to
protest and he shot her a glare. “And those people definitelyare
hurt.” He locked his gaze on Ripka. “You are sure? You stake your life
and your reputation on this not being an eruption?”
   “I know what caused that. I swear it.”
   “Very well. Remove their bonds, men. We’ll need the hands. I suspect
we’re going to have a lot of digging to do.”
   Chapter Thirty-Nine
   Detan did not know how long he slept, but when he woke the world was
dark and still. The faint light trickling in under the curtain barring
his window was enough to give him a pounding headache. He groaned and
rested his forearm across his eyes. His arm was enclosed in a silken
sleeve– someone had gone to the trouble of changing him. He felt a pang
of sympathy for whoever had suffered that nasty little chore. He was
pretty certain he’d fouled himself in those final moments. So very much
of his bodily control had fled.
   And he didn’t have it all back. Parts of him radiated numbness like a
nimbus, the center of a spot perfectly deadened while the area around it
grew steadily in feeling. With care, he began flexing every toe to its
max extension, letting them relax, and repeating the motion with every
muscle all the way up his body until he was pretty sure he still had all
his parts intact.
   Not that he deserved them.
   Memory of that terrible flailing of his power filled his mind, insisted
to be recognized lest he bury it completely. In a rueful way he welcomed
the change. After he’d blown up the mines by accident here, that first
time, he’d buried the guilt and the memory beneath layers of pain.
   His new mental exercises would not allow him that luxury of
self-deception. He needed to know everything he possibly could about his
ability, and though the pain had been immense he had learned a great
deal during those terrible moments.
   He tried to catalog them with remote interest, to remove himself from
the memory of his agony and the outlet that agony had eventually found.
   One: the injection did not affect Aella. He was not yet sure how he
could use that, but it felt significant to him. Some tiny sliver of
weakness he could pry at.
   Two: His sphere of influence was much larger than expected. Large enough
that it dwarfed Aella’s, and she could not keep him fully contained if
he decided to reach outside of her range.
   Not that he wanted to. Though he’d desperately attempted to rein himself
in, he held no illusions about what he’d done. He’d blown a pocket of
selium at the opening of a firemouth. People died. How many, he was
terrified to learn. But his fear was irrelevant in the face of the pain
and terror he’d caused. He needed to move. To help. To fix something.
   He peeled the arm from his eyes, swung his feet to the bedroom floor,
and nearly fainted from the exertion. Rather annoying, having a body
that wouldn’t obey him. Not nearly as bad as having a mind that
wouldn’t.
   Someone had the gall to knock on his door, and he was halfway through
reaching back to chuck a pillow at the intruder when his auntie stepped
into the room. He froze, mid-swing, and hesitantly brought the pillow
down to rest in his lap.
   “You’re up,” she said.
   “Your powers of observation never cease to impress me.”
   She propped a tray against her hip, and sidled awkwardly through the
door to keep from rocking its contents. Clay plates rattled as she
snatched a guttering candlestick from the tray and set about lighting,
one at a time, the candelabra near the door. The warm light made his
eyes ache, and he considered asking her to douse the flames, but he’d
have to face the day eventually.
   He only wished the flames did not remind him of what he had done.
   “I would say I taught you to speak better to your elders, but I don’t
believe those lessons ever stuck.”
   “Your efforts were valiant, but in vain.”
   A streak of sadness marred her features, gone as quickly as it came, her
stern expression replaced in a flash. He wondered if that ability were a
family trait, too. Acquiring a mask for all his various roles had always
come easily to him.
   She settled herself in a chair alongside his bed and set the tray on his
nightstand. Warm tea muddled with cactus fruit steamed beside him, a
delicate roll of paper-thin egg wrapped around a huge variety of local
vegetables and meats next to it. His stomach grumbled, loud enough to
echo in the quiet room. Auntie Honding tipped her head to the plate
without comment, and he dug in. When half the food was gone and washed
down by tea, he ventured to ask the question he dreaded.
   “How bad?”
   Her eyes closed, fingers knotting the skirt over her knees.“The fire
was contained, but rockfall struck the palace district to the east.
We’re still sorting through the remains.”
   The food tasted bland and caught in his throat.“I never meant…”
   “I know.” She reached out and squeezed his knee. He couldn’t remember
the last time she’d touched him. “But the damage is done.”
   He brushed her hand away.“Ranalae pushed me to it. Aella would not have
dared without her prodding. If you had not invited her into our home–”
   His auntie laughed, a soft, bitter sound he’d never heard from her
before. “And do you think I have any choice in the matter?”
   “You sent for them.”
   “They were coming anyway. From the moment Thratia seized Aransa it was
only a matter of time before the empire wondered just why it’d let our
little family rule this jewel for so long. My invitation was an attempt
to save face, to retain some semblance of authority over what happens
here.” She cast him a sly look. “Not entirely different from your
marriage.”
   “Ranalae is a monster.”
   “And so are Aella and Thratia and, some would say, you, dear boy.”
   “Then we should all of us be turned out.”
   She sighed wearily and leaned back in her chair, allowing her eyes to
slip shut. She’d never looked so old before. So tired. Fine lines ran
the length of her face like spider-webbed glass, just waiting for the
final blow before it shatters.
   “Maybe,” she agreed. “But we are all this city has, for the moment.”
   “We aren’t the only ones working to protect this city.”
   Her eyes snapped open and she stared hard at the ceiling their ancestors
had built.“You mean your friends. That watch-captain, and the others.”
   “I do. You did them a terrible disservice, trying to lock them out of
the fight. I sent them to you – sent you Nouli – and you threw away all
those opportunities to scrape your knees before the empire.”
   “Threw them away? I protected them, you stupid boy. I tried to lock them
where even Ranalae’s spies could not find them, and then they went to
the wind. Do not think, not even for a moment, that they were not being
followed from the moment they stepped off theLarkspur’s decks.
Ranalae may have arrived a few weeks ago, but her spies have been here
much longer. The ex-watch-captain of Aransa is a target too juicy to
miss.”
   “And you are doing what, exactly? This city is under siege by disparate
forces. You cannot tell me the only thing you’ve done to protect it is
to call for the empire and lock some friends of mine away for their own
safety. If you want to lose this city, auntie, you’re doing a real good
job ofit.”
   The fine lines of her face smoothed away as she drew her expression taut
with bitten-back anger.“I’ve done what I can. I created the forum, to
allow our people their voices, in the hopes that they would become their
own force if it came to that. I’ve threaded my own people throughout the
city – people looking for your friendsnow, might I add, to make
certain they are safe–and flew my little birds to catch any whispers. I
have not beenidle, as you imply, but I have been hamstrung. How can
one secure a city’s future, without its heir?”
   He was on his feet in an instant, the dizzy flash of sudden movement
fading beneath the storm front of his anger. The Dame moved, a futile
attempt to grab his sleeve, but he was already around the bed, reaching
for the curtain the servants had drawn against the evening. Drawn to
hide what he had done.
   The cloth tore as he yanked it back, revealing the hazy light of a late
evening choked in dust. Though his room was not angled to the best
vantage, the damage was plain enough. Stonefall carved a swathe of
destruction through the palace district, the scents of bloody iron and
choking dust still hot in the faint breeze swirling ash against his
windowsill.
   “This,” he grated, “this is what this city’s heir brings.”
   “Aella said–”
   “Aella says whatever she damn well pleases to get what she wants.
Pitsfucking damnit, auntie, I’m trying to keep it together, damn near
making myself mad with all her lessons and experiments upon my ‘control’
but half the fucking time I suspect she’s pushing me to test herself, or
to see what she can get away with. I’ve got the Honding fire, but I’ve
got the family temper, too, and those two nasty cousins should never
mingle. I would have rather choked on my own blood than do… do…this.
But look. Fucking look and see how successful I was.”
   “Language,” she snapped.
   He dragged his fingers through sweat-damp hair.“This ain’t a time that
calls for pretty words, auntie. This is something that deserves words so
ugly I haven’t even dreamed them up yet.”
   “While you busy yourself with your vocabulary,” she said as she pushed
to her feet and straightened the robe that trailed her like midnight, “I
came to tell you that Gatai is insisting you have your friends returned
to you, and I find I agree. Though you will not take me into your
confidence–” she held up a hand to forestall an argument, “– it is clear
to me that you must have someone. I have done all I can to keep this
city safe, and have reached the end of my ability. If you require my
assistance, you have it through Gatai. I suspect the less I know of your
true motives, the better.”
   He swallowed around a dry throat.“And just how will you hide them here,
if they even agree to return?”
   She flashed him a smile.“Your old auntie isn’t beaten yet, boy. I have
a few tricks up my sleeve. And you’d be amazed how easy it is for one to
overlook the details of a face when the body is wearing servant blacks.”
   He slouched against the wall beside the window, turning away from the
destruction he’d wrought. “I want to help…”
   She crossed to him, gathered both of his hands in her boneraw fingers.“I know. You can’t. Not me, anyway. My time here is… short, nephew. Now,
if you’ll excuse me, I have a wedding to prepare for.” Her voice was
grim as she squeezed his hands. “Make your mother proud, boy. You’ve
already made me so.”
   She was gone in a moment, aged legs carrying her with the same speed and
grace they always had. Must be nice to not be susceptible to bonewither,
he thought, then chased the thought away. His auntie had done her best
for a family lineage she was, by lack of a genetic inheritance, kept
apart from. Though her actions were flawed, her motives were pure. She’d
done what she could. The rest was up to him.
   Skies save them all.
   Chapter Forty
   Hond Steading burned. Ash and screams choked the air, and by the time
Ripka arrived at the heart of the terror she and all the others had torn
strips of cloth from their clothing to tie around their mouths and
noses, lest they breathe in all that had once been stone. And flesh. A
certain sweet, meaty smell tinged the air that Ripka tried very, very
hard not to think about.
   The watchers spread out, using their whistles to coordinate in a pattern
so familiar it made Ripka’s heart ache. She wanted nothing more than to
join them, to shrug on a blue coat and heave to with the others, to be a
human bastion of order and safety for the confused and injured populace.
   But she’d lost that place. Given it up for a cause, and now this vague
edge life was all she had left.
   Not so little of a life that she couldn’t do something with it, though.
Sometimes the greatest leverage for change could only be obtained from
outside a system.
   The eastern edge of the palace district lay broken across the wide road
that had once been its major thoroughfare. Stone and wood and bodies lay
scattered like chaff across the road, cries of distress, pain, and
requests for help merging into one great wail. The belch of the
firemount had stopped, but the horror was just getting started.
   Halfway toward the rubble, she realized she’d lost the shadow of Tibal
at her side. She cast around for him, saw him standing just on the rise
where they’d first caught sight of the destruction, his hands trembling
at his sides and his face as pale as death. Enard hesitated alongside
her, but she waved him on. Wasn’t likely having a crowd around Tibal
would do him any good.
   She jogged up to him, aware always of the groans and cries in the
neighborhood behind her, and turned to stand at his side, looking out
across the damage, not at him. She doubted he’d really see her even if
she held his eyes open and shoved her face right under them.
   She said nothing, kept her presence steady and solid and silent, while
he worked up whatever it was he needed to say.
   “Detan did this,” he said after a while.
   “Didn’t mean to.”
   “Who would make him?”
   Ripka kept quiet. Wasn’t a real question, anyway. Eventually Tibal
rolled his lips round, working up some saliva, and said, “Ain’t seen
nothing like this since the war.” Sweat gleamed across his dusty
forehead, tracking runnels through the grit that dusted them all.
   “Won’t be likely to again, if we can help it.”
   “That what we’re doing here, preventing horrors like this?”
   “It’s what I’m trying for.”
   “Working out well.”
   She winced, and he blinked, drawing back into himself. He tugged on his
mouth-wrap with those rangy fingers of his, didn’t quite seem to know
what to do with his hands so he tugged on his hat, too. A little
avalanche of dust and soot rolled off the brim. Ripka decided not to
think about what that dust might have been just a few marks ago.
   “Don’t know if I can do it,” he said.
   “You don’t have to. Could go back, give Honey a hand.”
   He pursed his lips like he’d tasted something sour. “They need help.”
   “Indeed.”
   “Could give it to ‘em. Had training in the Fleet.”
   Training from the same Fleet that’d brought him through so much carnage
that he stood here now, one of the bravest men she’d ever known, shaking
straight through the ground for the fear this all brought rushing back.
   “Could do,” she agreed.
   “You could, too.”
   “Plan on it.”
   “What are you dicking around with me for, then?”
   “Saw someone needed my help, and offered it.”
   He gave her a sly, sideways glance that she could feel crawl against her
cheek, but she kept her gaze straight ahead, stuck on the destruction,
mapping out the points of the most hurt, guessing where best she could
bend a back and lend a hand as soon as Tibal had himself settled.
   “Guess we’d better get to it, then.”
   “Suppose so,” she agreed.
   He hesitated, his body canting forward while his feet stayed stuck. She
couldn’t dream of what kind of demons he was fighting, couldn’t even
conjure up a ghost of them, but she had to give him credit. He put one
foot in front of the other, grit his teeth, lengthened his stride, and
picked up speed. By the time they hit the bottom of the little ridge he
was all cool confidence, barking orders to those clearing the rubble
just like he’d been trained. Wouldn’t sleep well tonight, that man, but
Ripka doubted any one of them would ever sleep well again after this.
   Ripka ran toward the pain. What had once been an apartment building lay
shattered on the ground, spilling out across the road far enough to
block all attempts at bringing carts through. People had thrown their
backs into clearing that rubble, whickering donkeys dragging carts over
to haul away both broken men and stone.
   Hard to tell the screams of men from the complaints of the animals. She
let her training take over. Rockfalls were always a worry for the
sel-mining cities of the Scorched, firemount eruptions a distant but
ever-present threat. And so the watchers trained, and made plans, and
grinned at each other and boasted about how prepared they were, how easy
it would be to set things to rights. Their plan was iron. Was stone.
   But in the desert, all things grow brittle and break, and all that
planning was no different. She moved rubble, peeled away sheets of stone
and twisted wood and there under the debris was a woman, just as broken
as her home. Her arm twisted up above her head, bone poking through the
skin like a white flag of surrender. Sallowness suffused her skin, but
her heart beat and her breath came slow and easy, so Ripka stabilized
the arm as best she could and hauled the woman to the street to line her
up with the other injured.
   The night went that way. Whether that woman was the first or the last
she didn’t know, couldn’t remember through the haze of faces made
indistinct by blood, ash, and tears. At the end – which wasn’t the end,
couldn’t be, was just a pause because the screams in the rubble had
stopped and something has to make you stop, or you end up in the line
with the injured – she sat hard on the knoll where Tibal had frozen with
fear of the past, and thought about all the future fears that were
always coming. Things could always get worse.
   Was a time when Ripka thought the worst thing that’d ever happened in
her life was her father coming home from the Catari war, mute and with a
look in his eye like all he could see were shades of red and charcoal.
Then he walked off, into the scrubland, and never came back. She’d
carried the guilt of how relieved that’d made her feel her whole life.
Right up until this moment, feeling and knowing some shade of what his
pain had been, and hoping there was something could be done to heal that
pain. Because if there wasn’t, she was a dead woman walking.
   Tibal found her soon enough, sat down beside her, those long legs of his
crossed in sharp angles that made her distinctly uncomfortable. His
fingers were raw, nails ripped back and skin bloodied, probably torn to
ribbons. Hers were, too, but she hadn’t really realized until she’d seen
the mirror of it on him. Didn’t matter to her, though. Wasn’t the worst
thing she was feeling.
   Enard came up, looking the same as them all, and that little warmth she
got in her chest every time she saw him stayed snuffed. Probably for the
best, that. Any hint of happiness she felt now might just make her vomit
from the contrast.
   Dranik found them, and Captain Falston too, and soon they were all sat
there, made indistinct from each other by smears of dust and blood, and
for a moment they looked with one set of eyes on what they’d done, and
what they hadn’t been able to do, and each one of them – each and every
fucking one – moved their personal bar for horror up just a little
higher.
   Sometime during the night Falston turned to her and was himself again,
distinct from the group, hints of his blue coat showing like smudges
under all the dust.“We need to talk.”
   “Been wondering when you’d say as much,” she said.
   They stood as one and, the previous events of the night seeming of
trifling importance now, headed to Latia’s house. Ripka hoped the woman
had strong wine waiting.
   Chapter Forty-One
   There were a lot of things Detan could have done in the day after he let
the firemount roar. The household staff tiptoed around him, and he
didn’t see a hair of either Thratia or Aella. Or Ranalae, and his dear
old auntie. That one visit, it seemed, was all he was going to get. He
was on his own, which he knew, but it was real frustrating waking up
with a pounding headache and knowing people were counting on you to get
them out of one right tangled mess.
   The reason he had that headache, he decided to shove aside. To dwell too
long on that particular nightmare might just set off a whole fresh
horror. Aella had given him an injection, returning some of his control,
but he didn’t trust himself to light a candle with his power now. Not
while he could still hear the rescue efforts going on outside.
   He could have run. Could have weaseled his way up the towers of the
palace and gotten himself onto theHappy Birthday Virra! and broken
for the inland, or the sea. He could almost convince himself that
fleeing was the best possible route, that what Pelkaia had said was
true: the best thing he could do for this world was to run, to find some
barren, sel-less place, destroy his flier, and stay there.
   If Callia hadn’t dipped that needle into his vein, he might have
believed her. Might have tried just that. But he could see it, now. That
infinitesimal world beyond the ken of unaltered eyes. Sel wasn’t
something that one could run from, not on this world, anyway. It was in
his blood and his air and his bones, and even if he fled clear to the
other side of the world, he suspected he’d find it there, too.
   Running just prolonged the inevitable. He paced the length of his room,
juggling options, when a solid knock on the door made him damn near jump
out of his skin. He cleared his throat to get his dignity back, and said
in the most authoritative voice he could muster,“Enter.”
   A parlour maid he didn’t recognize let herself in, and offered up to him
a thick package wrapped in coarse linen. “Master Gatai said I should
bring this to you, straightaway.”
   “My thanks.” He took the bundle from her, tucked it under his arm to the
sound of rustling cloth and paper. She bobbed her head and made a dash
for the door, then paused halfway out with her hand still on the knob, a
little worried wrinkle dimpling her chin.
   His stomach sank as she glanced back over her shoulder at him, eyes a
little wide with worry.“My Lord?” she asked.
   He forced himself to smile, knowing what was coming. She’d ask about the
eruption. She must know his secret, probably the whole city did. Thratia
certainly wasn’t trying to hide his deviation. Would she be so bold as
to claim the destruction he’d wrought in his name?
   Despite the stew of fear in his head, his voice was cool, calm.“Yes?”
   “Nice to have you back, you don’t mind my saying.”
   She flashed him a grin and darted out the door in a rustle of skirts.
Detan nearly burst into a fit of anxious laughter. Gatai had said the
servants were with him. There must be outliers, of course, people bought
over to Ranalae or Thratia or who just plain didn’t like him. But, skies
above, to have any support at all was a balm.
   He made quick work of the package and found two servants’ black uniforms
with a folded note tucked inside. Gatai’s precise handwriting greeted
him.
   My Lord Honding,
   Your guests await you in the eastern wing, and have a lovely view of
the oncoming monsoon winds. Recent events require my attention, but I
trust you will handle all things with care.
   Your Servant,
   Gatai
   A lot could be hidden behind servants’ black, or so his auntie had said,
and Detan grinned as he thumbed the fine material. While all eyes were
off him, it was time to make a few social calls.
   Chapter Forty-Two
   Latia welcomed the watch-captain of Hond Steading into her home with
little more shock than a slight widening of eyes and what was, perhaps,
a rather heavy pour of wine into her own glass. Honey was less pleased
with the situation.
   “He tried to arrest you,” she protested from the divan Latia had propped
her up in with heaps of pillows, and teas that, no doubt, made her
tongue looser than usual.
   “Won’t make that mistake again,” Falston said with a smile that never
quite reached his eyes. He kept on looking at Honey like he knew her,
which was, as far as Ripka could reckon, not a good thing. She’d never
pressed Honey on what had landed her on the Remnant, but she could damn
well guess, and if the captain had any prior knowledge of her exploits
his friendliness might well fade in a hurry.
   “What happened tonight,” she said to draw his attention to her, “may be
only the first demonstration.”
   That got his attention. His head whipped around like the wind, eyes
narrowed.“Demonstration? Is that what you call tonight’s horrors?”
   “Me? No. But you bet your ass Thratia Ganal does.” She wasn’t sure, of
course, but Detan had been the source of that explosion – and there was
just no way she could allow herself to believe he’d done it of his own
free will. Someone pushed him to it, and Thratia had both the means and
theaccess. Whatever power struggle was going on in the Honding palace,
Thratia had just made the breadth of her arsenal very, very clear to her
opponents. Ranalae was probably wetting herself with excitement at that
little display.
   “And why in the hell would she want to wound and scare the ever-loving
shit out of the very people she claims she wants to rule with a
benevolent hand?”
   Ripka’s smile was tight and sad. “Never said it was a demonstration for
the people, Captain.”
   He knocked back a heavy swallow and squinted at her.“Cut to the point,
lass.”
   “This marriage of hers to Detan. It isn’t what you think it is. Isn’t
what the whole city thinks it is.”
   Tibal cleared his throat roughly and she cut him a look to shut him up.
They needed the watchers on their side if they were going to protect the
people from whatever struggles were going on in that palace, and if she
had to expose Detan’s deviation, then so be it. Wouldn’t be much longer
he could keep that information under wraps, anyway, no matter what he
did. Either Thratia’d let the cat out of the cave, or he would do
something rather dumb, and rather public.
   “That accident, three years back? The one he lost his sel-sense in?”
   Falston nodded.“Whole city knows that story, lass. Dame sent him to
Valathea to see if he could recover his sense, but he left there and
went rambling, causing trouble for the empire. Truth be told, the city
is fond of their heir. Not a lot of love here for the empire, you
understand. What with us being independent and all. We get the shit end
of their trade taxes.”
   Ripka found her lips had grown heavy. She took a long swallow, closed
her eyes, and breathed out real easy. There was no going back from this.
But then, they were already in the shit up to their eyeballs.
   “Wasn’t his sel-sense he lost, just his freedom. He’s a deviant, Captain
Falston. He didn’t mean to, but he caused that explosion, and he was
sent to the Bone Tower to figure out just how that trick of his worked.”
   Falston sucked air through his two front teeth, gapped just like his
little girl’s, and stared at the silty bottom of his empty glass. Latia
scurried to refill it. He took another long draw. “Heard rumors of that
nature. Never counted ‘em for much.”
   “And?” she pressed, stomach sinking.
   “Heard rumors of the Bone Tower, too, and those I thought likely enough.
Nasty shit, there. Is it true?”
   “Worse than the rumors know.”
   “Pitsdamn. What is our Dame doing, letting those vipers in her house?”
   Ripka shook her head. She wasn’t quite sure she knew herself, but the
last thing she wanted was the watchers turning against their Dame now,
when everything was on the line.
   “Couldn’t rightly tell you. I think they got into her head, Detan told
me–” She had to clear her throat. “–told me they talked her up with
ideas of curing him, of making him safe again. I think she bought it
all. Regrets it now, more than like, but he hasn’t been home since he
went tothat tower. I don’t know that they ever talked about it.” Her
gaze tracked to the window, toward the blown head of the firemount. “Bet
they’re talking about it now.”
   “What in the fiery pits is he doing back here, then, if his power’s so
unstable? I’d want to stay far away from firemounts, in his position.”
   Tibal snorted, and Ripka cut him a look. Falston might be tired and a
touch drunk, but he picked up on it in an instant.“What’s that you’ve
got to say then, man?”
   “Now’s not the time for this,” Ripka urged.
   “Pits it isn’t.” Falston set his glass down and gripped his knees with
both hands as he leaned forward. “You’re telling me a mountain of a
tale, Captain. I got a lot of respect for you, you know that, but
something this big, I gotta make sure I see all the faces. Tell your
part then, man.”
   Tibal nudged back his ashy hat and frowned at them both.“Detan was a
friend of mine, long time now. Just reckoning that he ain’t ever been
known for his sense.”
   Falston grimaced.“All that power, and no sense? We got to get him the
pits out of this city.”
   She could see the notion dancing around in his red-webbed, glassy eyes.
Quick as he said the words, his mind caught up with the possibility. If
they couldn’t get him out safely, they’d have to kill him. To protect
the city. After tonight’s demonstration, Ripka’d be thinking the same
thing if their roles were reversed. If Detan had so much as made the
firemount of Aransa hiccup while she’d been the city’s watch-captain,
she’d put an arrow in his eye and mourn the loss as necessary for the
greater good.
   Even now, she didn’t know the man’s state of mind. Had only her own
intuition and experience with him to rely upon, but she had to believe
he hadn’t done tonight’s damage on purpose. The man she’d known, the man
sheknew, would rather run than risk an innocent. Which meant he was
cornered so hard he had nowhere to flee.
   “He’s a prisoner,” she said slowly, rolling every word over in her mind
before she spoke. “What happened tonight? That was his doing, but not
his will.”
   “You can’t promise that,” Falston protested. “He’s a Honding. Solid
leaders, but known for their tempers.”
   She couldn’t promise him, not really, and it tore her up right to the
core. She struggled with something else to say, something to convince
the man that keeping Detan safe – and getting him away from his captors
– was the best possible course of action. But every one of those paths
was a lie, and the words died halfway to her lips.
   Silence stretched, and with every passing moment an empty maw inside her
grew, gnawing up her hope and her sympathy. Removing Detan–assassinating Detan– was the best thing for this city. Thratia
wouldn’t have her pawn, her weapon, and the city’d be safe from his
outbursts. It made terrible, terrible sense.
   “I promise it,” Tibal said.
   He pushed his hat all the way back so the room could see his eyes, the
mudcrack fractures of wrinkles radiating from the corners. In the dim
candlelight, caked all over with the dust of rubble, he seemed older.
Ancient. Something in the sharp edge of his wiry jaw reminded her of
Dame Honding when she was putting on her game face.
   “Forgive me, sir.” Falston swung around to face Tibal. “But who the pits
are you to guarantee such a thing?”
   Tibal thought a moment, lips pursing as he chewed over an answer.“His
friend. And that’s all that should thrice-damned matter.”
   He cut Ripka a glance that made her wince.“Tibal’s right. Doesn’t
matter what Thratia’s done to him, Detan’s no killer. He’s a prisoner,
and he needs our help. I’ve no doubt he’s planning to undermine Thratia
before this is all done. He’ll need the watch’s help, too.”
   Falston leaned back, wicker creaking, and stared hard at Tibal for a
while. If he saw the family resemblance, diluted though it was, he
didn’t say anything. Just chucked back the rest of his drink and nodded.
   “Right, then. We have an awful lot to plan, and very little time. When
do you lot suppose he’ll make his move?”
   Tibal snort-laughed.“The wedding, no doubt. Damn fool likes an audience
for his self-diagnosed cleverness.”
   “Hmm.” Falston stroked his whiskers and frowned. “Watch is looking kind
of thin lately, and the wedding’ll draw out a big crowd. Hard to keep
our corners covered, especially with a chunk of the inner wall down.”
   “Wedding’s a week out,” Ripka offered. “Not a lot of time to train, but
we could get some bodies on board all the same.”
   Dranik jumped to his feet.“A citizen’s brigade!”
   Falston frowned.“A what now?”
   “Citizen’s brigade,” he over-pronounced each word as he paced, rubbing
his raw hands together. “After the quake tonight, it should be no
trouble to get people interested in joining up to protect their
neighborhoods. Tell them it’s a preparedness plan, in case of
emergencies natural and political. They’ll get it, I’m sure. So many
people in this city are just looking for a way to help it themselves.
They love their homes, Captain. Let them throw in.”
   “And how would we go about getting the word out about something like
that?”
   Dranik beamed from ear-to-ear.“The forum, of course. Tomorrow is a free
speech day, you won’t even have to sign up in advance, Ripka.”
   “Me?” She coughed on a drop of wine gone down wrong. “Need I remind you
I’m a fugitive of the palace?”
   “Bah,” he waved a hand, “everyone around here’s heard of the
watch-captain of Aransa. And I bet Captain Lakon’s watchers will be just
too busy with the rebuilding effort to go after you. Isn’t that right,
Captain?”
   Falston grinned.“Better her up there than me.”
   Chapter Forty-Three
   Coss insisted she was being paranoid, but what in the Black did he know?
The crew avoided her. Barely spoke to her. Kept their eyes averted every
time she passed. She might be a sick woman in both bone and brain, but
she wasn’t stupid. Never that. Paranoia ran in her blood but it didn’t
own her. Nothing did. Not even the land that’d birthed her.
   She reveled in the silence of the light step she’d spent her whole life
cultivating as she paced back and forth across her cabin, back and
forth, hands clasped tight behind the small of her back, head pointed
down. She wasn’t foolish enough to risk catching another glimpse of her
naked face in the mirror, not after what she’d seen last time. Her
mother’s face, staring back at her, young again and eyes bright with the
madness that had taken her grandmother to her grave. Sweating and raving
and beating her breasts.
   Pelkaia stopped pacing, realized she’d forced her hands up and was
pulling at her hair, clumps of dirty blonde strung between her fingers.
She flicked them to the floor and strode over them. Silent. Silent. She
was a hunter, an agent of revenge. In one night she’d brought Aransa to
its knees for what its officials had let happen to her son. Why should
she shy away now, now, when the ultimate author of her son’s death – the
real author, the woman who had signed her damn name to the paper – was
near at hand?
   There was nothing for it. Her crew was against her. Thought her mad.
Wouldn’t so much as lift a finger to help her. Their laziness made them
complacent. No, worse, implicated – yes, she was sure that was the word.
In doing nothing they were as much a part of Thratia’s schemes as her
militia was.
   Maybe, if she could prove to Coss that they were working against her,
working for that bitch Thratia, then Coss would see. Would come over to
her side of things. Beg forgiveness. Help her knock Thratia from the sky
and into the dirt.
   The obvious choice was Laella. That girl was pure Valathean aristocracy,
though she did her best to hide it around Pelkaia. But you couldn’t hide
who you were from her, oh no. Pelkaia had made a life of studying the
mannerisms of others so that she could copy them. Could pick and choose
what she needed to construct a new, false persona or imitate an old one.
Laella was good, but no one was good enough to hide from Pelkaia. She
saw every twitch, every hidden smirk, every lofty mannerism. That girl
was full of herself. And hiding something. Didn’t she sneak off the ship
at all hours?
   Where was she now?
   Chill night air blasted against her skin as she opened the door, the
scent of ash and fire heavy on the air. Pelkaia threw an annoyed scowl
at the sky. Her crew, all of them, milled around the deck of theLarkspur, peering over the rails, pointing and talking in low, worried
voices.
   “What’s happened?” she demanded, stalking up to the rail to stand
alongside Coss. He shifted his coat from his shoulders and settled it
over hers. She hadn’t even realized she’d strode out into the night in
little more than her leggings and shift. But then, half the crew looked
like they’d been rustled out of bed, too – mussed hair and coats thrown
over nightclothes. Had something awakened her? She couldn’t even
remember.
   “Trouble with the firemount by the palace. Had a small blowout a few
marks back, but seems to have settled down now.”
   “Thratia.”
   He raised both brows at her.“Really? And what would she have to do with
a perfectly natural occurrence?”
   “Don’t be daft. She has the Honding. I told him to leave this place
before he did harm. How bad?”
   Coss looked away from her, hunkering his shoulders so that he leaned
slightly back from her side.“Hard to say. Relief’s been at it all
night. Some of us wanted to go lend a hand, but looters come out on
nights like this. Didn’t want to leave the ship unwatched.”
   Pelkaia stifled a need to point out that such decisions were hers to
make. She’d had her fill of arguing with Coss as of late, and though she
balked at his supposition that she had grown untrustworthy and unwell, a
tiny piece of her, some calm core separated from the manic desperation
that hummed through her, wondered if he were right. If she should just
hand over the ship’s control to him, and seek help. Or lay down to die.
Was it too soon for that?
   She’d forgotten how old she was, again. That couldn’t be a good sign.
   The dock they’d hired berthage at creaked as a single pair of footsteps
pattered toward them. Laella. Her hands were white with dust, her hair
and robes streaked with more of the same. In the faint lantern light of
the docks, a heavy mask of makeup had been smeared across her features,
sweat and grit minglingon her skin in sticky clumps. She walked like a
woman exhausted, a woman defeated, but not a woman who’d been injured.
   Pelkaia’s eyes narrowed. That the girl had been out was no surprise, but
that she’d been out on a night when Thratia’s little demonstration was
made, well. Thratia knew damned well the type of people living aboard
theLarkspur. Though the Dame had given them express permission to
stay in the city, there was nothing stopping Thratia from reaching out
to a wayward deviant who spent more time off theLarkspur than on it.
   Wouldn’t Thratia just love that, too? Twisting the mind of a woman
Pelkaia had saved. Stealing a human being’s loyalties from the woman
who’d taken her ship. Laella’d be the perfect mark. Leaving all the
time, already closely tied to Valathean nobility. Gods beneath the
dunes, the two might even know each other through previous social
circles. Laella’s family had been high-born, rich mercers. The kind of
people Thratia loved to use.
   Her fingers curled protectively around theLarkspur’s rail. There
would be no spy of Thratia’s aboard her ship.
   “Where have you been?” she demanded when the young woman had mounted the
gangplank.
   Laella’s step stuttered as she dragged herself the rest of the way up
onto the deck.
   Coss moved toward her, hesitated, then stopped.“Are you all right?”
   “I’m fine,” Laella said.
   “What happened?” Jeffin piped up.
   “Where have you been?”
   All heads snapped to her, eyes wide and white in the pale light. Laella
reached up, tried to straighten an ashy braid, and quickly gave up.“Wading through the pits,” she said. “It’s a nightmare down there.”
   “What happened?” Coss pressed.
   “One side of that firemount – I don’t know what it’s called. The big one
by the palace. Anyway, it went up. Not too hard. Just a puff, I’d guess,
but it was enough to kick off a landslide that took out half the
residences of the palace district. I was in the theater district when it
happened. Saw the whole thing, close as one could without being crushed,
anyway.”
   “You’re certain you’re all right?” Coss pressed.
   She nodded, but when Essi dragged a crate over to her she sat down like
it was the plushest chair she’d ever touched ass to.
   “Lucky place to be,” Pelkaia said dryly. “Why were you there?”
   Laella stared hard at her for a long moment.“In the theater district?
For the theater.”
   Essi snickered. Pelkaia cut her a look and the little brat shut right
up.“Seems you’ve been going there a lot, lately.”
   “Not like there’s much to do here,” she snapped.
   Pelkaia stepped toward her. Coss put a hand on her shoulder but she
shrugged it off. He’d kept her from tackling this treacherous girl long
enough.
   “Bored, are you? Filling your time with other ventures, then? Ones that
put you in safe range of one of Thratia’s little demonstrations?”
   “What in the ass-licking pits are you talking about?” Laella shook her
head in denial, and though she was playing tired and exasperated to all
those aboard, Pelkaia could see the truth in the details of her
expression. The tension along her jaw, the flicker of irritation in her
eyes. She felt challenged, cornered. The girl was hiding something, and
Pelkaia was pretty damn sure she knew what that was.
   “You expect me to believe that all your ventures off this ship have been
innocent – what – tourism?”
   Laella’s eyes widened. “You think I’m working for Ganal, don’t you?”
   “Do you deny it?”
   She barked a near-hysteric laugh.“Skies fucking above, Captain, you
really have gone off your nut.”
   A few snickers from the crew. Pelkaia shot them all a hard look, and
they weren’t so quick to quiet this time around. “You traitorous fucking
bastards. I dragged you – all of you! – from the edge of death, and you
think I’ve lost my mind? This girl hasn’t been traipsing around the city
changing up her appearance every time for nothing.”
   Coss swore. Laella sucked in a sharp, angry breath.“You’ve been
following me?”
   “I have a right to know where my people are.”
   She stood in one fluid movement, whatever energy skulking around the
city had taken out of her flooding back in one great rush.“Fuck you,
and your twisted menagerie, Pelkaia Teria. You’re a paranoid old woman
with a hard-on for vengeance. You didn’t save us. Youcollected us,
and I for one am sick of being a token on your insane gameboard. Do.
Not. Look. For. Me.”
   “Lael–” Essi reached a hand toward the woman, but she had already turned
and was halfway down the gangplank. Pelkaia snorted.
   “Good riddance.”
   Coss shook his head, long and slow. One by one, her crew went to their
beds and locked their doors, leaving her alone on the deck, staring at
the ashy footprints Laella had left behind, shaking as the mania that’d
gripped her earlier faded to little more than shivering exhaustion.
   Chapter Forty-Four
   The bundle of servants’ blacks made an obvious bulge beneath the front
of his coat, but Detan figured no one would bother to comment on their
lord’s new paunch. They had other things to worry about. Not that anyone
was about to comment, anyway. The palace residence wings were as empty
as a whorehouse come the dawn. Normally he would have resented the lack
of an audience, but today he welcomed the solitude. Every gaze he’d
caught lately housed a question he just wasn’t able to answer. Not yet,
anyway.
   By the time he reached the east wing of the palace he was jumping at
shadows, expecting a trail from Misol or any other one of Thratia or
Ranalae’s cronies to make themselves known at the most inopportune of
moments. This was the area of the building his auntie had handed over to
Thratia, and each time he turned a corner he half expected to see her
narrow eyes glaring him into a puddle.
   Lady luck, or at least someone pretending to be her, was smiling on him.
The empty halls caused him to wonder just what exactly Thratia was up to
while he was sneaking about. He had a real nasty feeling that that’d
spell trouble for him in the future.
   The future. Hah. Ripka had rubbed off on him. He’d never worried about
planning for the future before. Options, flexibility. These were the
circumstances he created for himself.
   Not that his previous habits were doing him a whole lotta’ good now.
   Detan strolled along like he belonged there, and probably he did. He
could get away with explaining he’d come to see his darling betrothed,
if pressed by any wanderers. Thratia wouldn’t buy it, of course, but
it’s not like she could kill him until after the happy nuptials.
   He decided it was best not to think about what she could do to him that
was worse than killing.
   Gatai had said the girls were being kept in a room with a view of the
monsoons, and there was only one he could think of that fit the
description. A lot of windows faced the same way‘round this side of the
building, but only one room had been built at an unfortunate angle from
a nearby tower that forced the winds to howl incessantly against its
exterior, making the balcony all but useless. His auntie stuck guests
she didn’t like in that room.
   Whether Thratia knew that or not, he couldn’t guess, but the fact was
the winds were likely to keep escape via the window a remote
possibility, and the howling would keep any shouts for aid real quiet.
She was a clever one, his bloodthirsty little wife-to-be.
   Casting around one last time for visitors, he leaned against the door as
if gathering his thoughts, tucked a hand up under the small of his back,
and tapped on the wood. No response. Those winds weren’t doing him any
good, either. Nothing else for it, then. He gave the door one solid kick
with his heel.
   “What the fuck you want us to do, invite you in? Not like we can open
the door,” Clink’s familiar voice barked.
   Detan grinned.“I’m not entirely sure I can either, my dears.”
   A pause.“Is that you, Honding?”
   “There are two Hondings in the building at present, but I believe I’m
the one you’re referring to.”
   She snorted.“And are you going to be any use this time around?”
   “That’s the idea.” He wished Tibs were with him as he turned his back on
the hall and slipped the two picks he’d brought with him into the lock.
   “For fuck’s sake, man, passme those things. Ain’t named Clink for
nothing, you know?”
   He blinked owlishly at the door.“Oh. Right.”
   Though the door was nearly flush with the floor, he managed to wiggle
them under just enough to feel Clink snatch them away. Immediately,
rattling issued from the knob.
   “Keep it down, yeah?”
   “There’s two ways to do this: quiet and slow, or quick and loud. So shut
up, I’m concentrating.”
   In Detan’s experience, slow was the only way to go about picking a lock,
but he didn’t count himself dumb enough to argue with a woman who’d
taken the name Clink when it came to lockpicking. He bit his lips and
crossed his arms to keep from fidgeting as he leaned against the door,
hoping the muffle of his back would silence some of the rattling. It
didn’t.
   “Black skies,” he muttered, and was promptly hissed at through the door.
Irritable women, these friends of Ripka. But then, he’d probably be
pretty pissy too if he’d been locked up to use as leverage against a man
he didn’t even know.
   The lock gave with a clatter and he nearly fell ass-first into both
women as they pulled it wide. Clink grabbed him by the scruff, dragged
him the rest of the way in, and eased the door shut behind him.
   “Skies above, I can’t believe the captain was a friend of yours. Damn
incompetent.”
   He made a show of straightening his clothes.“This incompetent has just
sprung you both, thank you very much.”
   Clink and Forge exchanged a long look, then glanced pointedly toward the
door.“Really? And just how are we getting past, oh, I don’t know, a
whole household full of unfriendlies?”
   He patted his protruding belly.“I have an answer for that. But–”
   Forge jabbed him in the chest with a finger.“You want a favor, is that
it, Mister Altruism? Thought you were going to set us free out of the
goodness of your little heart.”
   He winced and held his hands out in supplication.“You’re in an
unfriendly city that’s being threatened with war on all sides. Tell me
you wouldn’t go looking for the captain, as you call her.”
   Forge narrowed her eyes.“We might at that. None of your business,
noble-boy.”
   “Agreed. But, if you do see her…” He pulled a leather-wrapped packet
about the size of his palm from his pocket and passed it over to Clink.
She eyed it, weighing it with care.
   “Bit heavy for a love-letter.”
   He snorted.“It’s a few things she might need, that’s all. But don’t
worry, I didn’t forget gifts for you ladies, either.”
   He pulled the parcel of servants’ blacks from beneath his coat and laid
it out flat on one of the two thin, hard beds that filled the room. The
women fingered the material, frowning.
   “Servants’ uniforms?” Forge asked, holding one up to her body. The fit
was reasonable enough, if a little large.
   “No better way to go unnoticed in a palace,” Clink said with a little
grin.
   “Except by other servants.”
   “Ah, but they are very much on your side. You have only to make it to
the central pantry, and you will be smuggled off into the city from
there.”
   “And how do we get to this pantry?” Clink asked, eyes narrowed.
   “I will escort you, of course.”
   “The pits you will. Nothing doing, Honding. We appreciate you’ve gotten
us this far but you’re a peacock in this nest. Servants may go
unnoticed, but everyone notices you.”
   Blasted woman was right, no matter how he hated the fact. The role he’d
chosen to play here wasn’t exactly one conducive to sneaking about. And
the lord of the palace caught skulking with a couple of maids, even if
they weren’t recognized, wouldn’t do him any good either.
   “Fine,” he said. “But I’ll precede you to the end of this wing as a
lookout.”
   “Deal.”
   He explained the way to the pantry in broad strokes, steering them clear
of the populous areas. The girls made quick work of changing their
clothes. Detan was relieved as anything to see Forge slip the packet
he’d given them for Ripka securely on the inside of her crisp top. It
was no guarantee, but it was something. Enough to ease the tension
coiled within him.
   “Ready?” he asked.
   Nods from both. No time like the present for a little skullduggery,
then. He pressed his ear against the door, listening for a few slow
breaths to be sure they wouldn’t troop straight into some random’s path,
then cracked the door just a sliver. All clear.
   A peacock, they’d called him. He could work with that. Shoving his hands
in his pockets he sauntered into the hall, a pleased smile slapped
across his features and what he hoped was a jaunty tilt to his chin.
Tibs would probably tell him he looked stupid but, this time around,
that was the point.
   The hall was clear right to the end, then Detan damned near tripped over
a man strutting about in one of the grey coats of Thratia’s militia. His
heart jumped clear to his throat.
   He over-exaggerated a stumble, forcing the man back down the hall that
intersected the one the others were in, and threw his arms out to puff
his coat and obscure any tell-tale signs of black. Servant’s garb or
not, if they stumbled across someone who knew their faces, it was all
over.
   “Whoa,” the militiaman said as he put an arm on Detan’s shoulder to
steady him. “You all right, sir? Look like you seen a ghost.”
   “Didn’t hear you coming, good man. This wing of the palace is dreadfully
quiet. Why is that? Where is everyone?”
   The man’s face scrunched under the one-two punch of questions, trying to
find a place to latch onto without overstepping his position too much.
Detan made a show of straightening his clothes while the man thought,
flapping about and generally being an annoyance.
   “Lots to be seen to, sir, and it’s still early yet.” Was the answer he
eventually arrived upon. Which possibly told Detan more about the
militiaman than he’d intended. Bloodshot eyes. Droopy, sallow cheeks.
Detan knew the look of a man sneaking away for a nap when he saw one.
   “Indeed.” He put on a lofty tone of voice, looking down his nose at him.
“And with so much to do, what are you doing back at the apartments,
then, forget something?”
   “Oh. I. Uh, er…”
   Detan put an arm around the man’s shoulders, turned him back down the
hall from which he’d come, and lowered his voice to whisper
conspiratorially. “I understand, man, I do. Thratia’s one pits-cursed
taskmistress, isn’t she? But I can’t just let you saunter on. Hurry back
to your duty, and I’ll have the servants bring you some bright eye
berry.”
   The man swallowed.“You won’t report me?”
   “Me? Nah. Truthfully, I understand. It’s been a long couple of days,
hasn’t it?”
   “Yes, sir. Thank you.”
   He bobbed his head a few times in an awkward half-bow, half-salute, and
trundled off down the hall as quick as his leaden legs would let him.
When he was well and truly gone, Detan let out a huge sigh of relief and
grinned to himself. Still got it.
   “Way’s clear, ladies.” He grabbed the corner of the wall and swung
around to face them.
   They’d already gone.
   Chapter Forty-Five
   Ripka had stood in front of a lot of crowds in her time as
watch-captain. Had given her fair share of speeches, most of them
structured in the formal trappings of her station. Each time she’d felt
calm, assured. She knew her place, and the people she addressed knew it,
too.
   Now, her stomach coiled in knots. The forum was a much bigger venue than
Dranik had made it out to be, and after the eruption the people of Hond
Steading had come out in force to discuss the matters of their city.
   On the edge of the palace district, shoved up against the backside of
the main market, an amphitheater had been carved into the ground. Bright
morning sunlight spilled across the hundreds of eager and wary faces
crowded into the stone-cut benches, the steady rustle of cloth and
murmur of voices reduced to a low hum by the fine acoustics. As Ripka
lined up with all of those who wished to speak along the side of the
stage, half the eyes in the place clung to her like thorns. Of all those
lined up, she was the outsider. The one speaker the citizens did not
recognize as a regular.
   No different than quelling a riotous crowd, she told herself, and had to
stifle a wolfish grin lest those watching think she was mad. At least
these people were less likely to try and tear her limbs off.
   “Next up,” the organizer boomed from above the podium. “Ripka Leshe, of
Aransa.”
   Game time. Her fear fled in a flash, anxiety melting from her limbs as
her focus narrowed to the podium, and the crowd. There was nothing else
in all the world.
   Dranik followed her, standing a respectable distance behind her as she
placed her palms on the cool stone lectern and leaned earnestly forward.
He was not there to speak. Everyone who frequented the forum knew him,
and knew that his physical presence was a silent endorsement of what she
had to say.
   “People of Hond Steading,” she began, thanking the sweet skies for
Latia’s knowledge of tea that her voice was smooth and without hitch.
She pitched her tone low, going for carriage, and the clever acoustics
of the forum did the rest. “I am the watch-captain of Aransa, or was on
the day that city fell, and I have come to tell you of what happened in
the streets that day.”
   Outbursts in the crowd, indistinct but clear in tone: shock, smug
recognition. She held up a fist to silence them and, to her surprise,
they quieted immediately.
   “The day Aransa lost its right to determine its own warden, its own
leadership, the streets were flooded with coats of grey.” She tipped her
head to point toward the shadow of theDread Wind over the Honding
palace. Any citizen aware enough of the city’s events to attend this
forum must have seen Thratia’s militia about, their grey uniforms a
ghostly contrast to the ruling family’s black.
   “It was my job, my duty, my honor, to protect that city’s right to
govern itself under the guidance of Valathean law. I failed that night.
I failed in the weeks leading up to that night. And I have come to you,
today, to tell you all the ways in which I have failed. So that you – so
that we – may not fail again.”
   She gathered breath to dive into her next point when a man shouted from
the front bench,“Who says a city has fallen just because Thratia Ganal
governs it?”
   Murmurs of assent spread out around him. The organizer scowled and
stepped forward, intent on silencing the man, but Ripka held up a hand
to stay him. If she did not face criticism head-on, she would win no
one’s mind or heart today.
   “Speak your name, dissenter,” she said.
   He stood, a thatch of grey hair set aglow atop his head by the angle of
the sun.“I am Hammod. All who attend this forum regularly know me.”
   She ignored the scorn in his voice, the hint that because she was not a
regular here, she was not welcome.“Hammod. Have you met someone who has
lived under Thratia’s rule?”
   His cheeks flamed red.“Cowards calling themselves refugees is all we’ve
seen come through Hond Steading. Opportunists seeking succor from the
Dame’s teat, more like. Anyone with any grit has stayed in Aransa. She
was elected, as you know. Fair as a calm sky.”
   “Elected? And who counted those votes? Commodore Ganal stepped into a
power vacuum that her own games had caused–” Ripka carefully danced over
the issue of Pelkaia’s involvement. “–and assumed control without the
consent of the people. No voting ever took place when I walked those
streets, and I left on the day she decided to call herself Warden.”
   “Left? I heard you were run out. A traitor made to walk the Black Wash.
Why in the pits should we listen to you?”
   Ripka hadn’t counted on that story making it to Hond Steading, but of
course Thratia would have it spread. She’d been in the city long enough
to set her people to whispering – and even before then, Ripka had no
doubt that Thratia’s counterintelligence were working hard to keep Hond
Steading’s loyalties divided. Explaining the circumstances of that walk,
her so-called execution, would take too long – and muddy the waters. She
needed something quick, sharp, if not entirely truthful, to clear her
name.
   “If I had walked the Black, would I be alive to stand before you today?”
   Awkward shifting from those in the front rows who had murmured on
Hammod’s behalf. No one survived the Black. That was common knowledge.
And if she had, then she certainly didn’t fit Hammod’s mold of a
cowardly opportunist trying to take advantage of the Dame’s hospitality.
Before Hammod could gather himself for another volley, she pressed on.
   “This is what Thratia does! She gives herself all appearance of
legitimacy, pretends to legally hold the things she’s actually taken. Do
you think she came here simply for a wedding?”
   Ripka jabbed a finger at the sky, and the silhouetted fleet hanging in
it. No one could doubt those ships had been outfitted for war, not
romance.
   “Do not let her poison your minds. Do not let her assume control through
your complacence. We have already seen a demonstration of her
willingness to cause destruction to achieve her desires – yes, I place
the blame of last night’s eruption at her feet. Do you not think she has
a weapon capable of demonstrating such power aboard that fortress ship
of hers?
   “That was a message for the Dame and her troops. But it was a message
you, the people of Hond Steading, must hear. The watch is not enough to
keep these streets safe, I promise you that. More souls are needed.
Able, quick-minded individuals who want to keep their home, their city,
safe. There is no telling what Thratia will do next. I cannot guarantee
anyone’s safety.
   “She will try to take this city legally – by marrying its heir. And I
tell you this, he wants no part of that plan. But your ruling family is
being held prisoner. Their hands are tied. It is up to you to protect
yourselves, now. The time for polite discourse has passed.”
   A few whoops from the audience gave her heart, but the crowd was mostly
inclined to quiet chatter. Her heart sank. This was the wrong audience
for this. These were people who wanted to talk out their problems. A
good and noble thing– but Thratia Ganal would let you talk all day
while she maneuvered a crossbow behind your back.
   Hammod scowled and stomped off toward the line to speak, cutting her a
hard glare. Ripka closed her eyes a moment, head bowed over the podium.
She knew the rules. Dranik had explained them to her. If she stood mute
for more than a minute, she would be removed, and the next in line would
have a chance to speak. They could go back and forth like this all day,
bickering over the ethics, the legality, while Thratia’s warship had a
speargun pointed at all their necks.
   She laughed, loud enough to be heard, and lifted her head, letting her
tired eyes roam those gathered. When all had quieted, she lifted her
hands, her raw and bleeding fingers, and examined them in the harsh
morning light.
   “Last night I dug the bodies of your fellow citizens from the ruin of
their homes. Forgive me if I am short of words.” She put her hands back
down, gripping the edge of the podium. “If you wish your city to survive
the coming weeks, come see me. Otherwise, make use of this forum while
you can. Thratia will not let you keep it long.”
   She strode off the stage to profound silence, and did not bother to stop
to sign her name in the speaker’s log as was tradition. Her hands shook
with anger at her sides, her focus so narrowed that all she could see
was the route out of this place – this place of pointless bickering.
   Once out on the street, she tipped her head back and glared at the sun,
then flicked her eyes away before they could ache. She was going to lose
another city to Thratia Ganal. She didn’t know what she wanted to do
more: strangle someone, or drink herself stupid.
   A footstep crunched behind her, hesitant. She spun, expecting Dranik.
   A young man she didn’t recognize jumped back from her sudden attention,
pupils wide. “Captain Leshe?” he asked.
   “Miss Leshe suits me fine,” she said by reflex.
   His grin was fierce.“Not to me. Not to us.”
   She blinked. Over his shoulder, a few dozen youths filtered out of the
forum, shifting anxiously in the dusty street, each and every one trying
to get a good, long look at her. She forced herself to pick her head up,
to push her shoulders back, but found she’d never left that posture
behind after all.
   “What can I do for you?” she asked, not daring to hope. They weren’t all
young, some grey heads mingled in the group, their numbers swelling
until Ripka couldn’t keep count.
   “Where do we sign up?”
   Chapter Forty-Six
   After Clink and Forge so rudely abandoned him to seek their freedom,
Detan paced the empty residence halls of the palace, wondering just what
in the pits everyone was up to, but not quite curious enough to go find
out for himself. It’d be just his luck Ranalae was planning some new
heinous experiment for him. Or worse, his auntie and Thratia were busy
picking out decorations for the wedding.
   Thing was, he knew where he was going from the moment he wandered away
from the east wing. Knew where his feet were leading him, though he
didn’t allow himself to approach the thought. There was one place in the
palace he’d avoided since coming home. One room he hadn’t dared to poke
his head into.
   Tibal’s.
   The door swung open easily under his hand. Unlatched, unlocked. Left
ajar, as was often Tibs’s way when he was head-deep in a project and
couldn’t be bothered with niceties like closing doors and bathing. A fan
of dust cleared away in the wake of the door. Not even the servants had
bothered to touch his room. Detan couldn’t blame them. Last time he’d
tried to polish a wrench Tibs hadn’t talked to him for a week.
   It’d been the longest they’d gone without talking, before the Remnant.
   He stepped inside. His fancy, polished boots felt strange clicking
across the gritty floor. Tibs’s sheets were a twisted mess on the narrow
bed, his tools spread out around the room in a pattern that made perfect
sense to Tibs, and no one else. Detan reached for a hammer, thought
better of it, and pulled his hand away before his fingers had brushed
the surface. Touching Tibs’s tools pissed him off, and though he’d
probably never be privy to Detan’s little saunter through this room, the
habit was ingrained. Living as close together as they had on the flier
had given them both clear boundaries to be respected. Mostly so they
wouldn’t kill each other.
   He shivered. Tibs had left the door to the airship dock open, probably
never bothered to close the thing the whole time he was here. Damned man
never felt the cold, not even during the harshest of winter nights in
the highlands of the desert. Despite the airflow, the subtle scent of
machine grease and leather clung to the fabric in the room. A phantom of
Tibs’s presence.
   A long, dingy linen curtain hung in the doorway to the airship dock. It
fluttered in the faint breeze, kicking up swirls of dust. He pushed it
aside, and stepped onto the dock.
   TheHappy Birthday Virra! was in the best shape he’d ever seen her.
Her woodwork had been polished to a high, glossy sheen, her brass
fittings bright as flame. Tibs had tied her sails and pulled in the
wings, but he didn’t need to see either unfurled to know they’d been
replaced with better stock, the broadcloth sails gleaming with wax, the
stabilizing wings webbed with fresh, supple leather. This was a ship
ready to fly.
   Tibs could have taken off at any time. Could have turned his back on
everything that’d gone wrong between them. But instead he’d waited, and
worked, and cleaned up the old bird until there was nothing left to
polish.
   “Where are you?” Detan asked the breeze.
   The deck swayed under his step, a familiar sensation that almost made
him choke up from pure longing. Without thought, he moved to the
captain’s podium, ignoring the empty nav deck behind him, and put his
hands upon the primary wheel, set his legs in the wide stance he took
while piloting.
   He could leave. The flier was ready to go. There were probably
provisions in its hold, and all his old clothes and trinkets. Money,
too, and the means of making more counterfeit grains. Without him,
Thratia would have no legal claim to the city. She’d have to take it by
force. And he had no doubt she would.
   He sighed and stepped back from the podium, peeling his hands away from
the warm wood reluctantly. A corner of paper caught his eye, wedged
beside one of the smaller wheels.
   He plucked it free, annoyed that debris had gotten caught there, and
nearly choked on his own spit.
   Sirra scrawled across the outside in Tibs’s sloppy script. He opened
it.— ⁂ —
   Knew this would get you. Just couldn’t resist the old bird, could you?
Pains me to leave her here, but the Dame’s getting itchy with me and I
can’t stick ‘round much longer. I think Ripka’s got some sort of plan,
but she’s mighty pissed with me, so I don’t know if she’ll let me in.
   Sirra. Detan. Look. You know I ain’t good with words. I don’t even know
if you don’t already know what I’m trying to tell you. Thing is, Dame’s
getting itchy because she knows my parents. Knew my pop, anyway. You
remember your old uncle Rew? I’m his bastard, sorry to say. Not many
knew, only my ma and the Dame. But whenyou went to the Bone Tower the
Dame went a-huntin’ for Rew’s blowbys and found me. Heir and a spare,
you know? But I don’t want it. Never had. Keeping you out of too much
trouble kept my sorry ass from getting branded for next in line, and I’m
sorry for that.
   Thing is, keeping your sorry ass out of trouble may have been the deal
I made with the Dame to start, but that changed. We ain’t cousins. We’re
friends, and that matters more than any blood. If you can’t see that,
you’re dumber than that rock you got for brains.
   Guess you know why we got matchin’ tempers, now.
   Don’t do anything too stupid. I’ll see you soon.— ⁂ —
   The paper trembled in his hand, and it didn’t have a thing to do with
the wind.
   “Honding, are you in here?” Thratia asked.
   Detan near jumped out of his skin. He folded the paper and shoved it in
his pocket, trying desperately to gather himself. She was across Tibs’s
room in a moment, shoved the curtain aside and squinted at him with
tired, dull eyes. They sharpened in a hurry, though, as she focused in
on him standing on the deck of the flier, just behind the captain’s
podium.
   “Leaving so soon?”
   “Just checking her fitness,” he said and shrugged, strolling across the
deck. It took everything he had to jump down to the dock while
maintaining nonchalance. “By the look of you, you’re the one preparing a
run. Getting cold feet, dearest?”
   Not so much as a frown. She gripped his elbow and steered him back into
Tibs’s room, out of the light and into the gloom. She looked even more
haggard in the half-dark.
   “While you’ve been checking on your toy, I’ve been working with the Dame
to secure aid for those damaged by your little outburst. It’s taken damn
near every apothik I brought with me, and supplies are running low. What
in the pits did you do?”
   The words fell as a blow to the chest. Thratia hadn’t been doing
anything nefarious while he’d been running around getting Forge and
Clink freed. She’d been hip-deep in the rescue relief, working alongside
his auntie to get the city tidied up. She’d been right where he should
have been, if he had any sense at all.
   “You want to know what I did,” he grated, “ask Aella and Ranalae.”
   “I did. I want it from you.”
   “They ambushed me. Pushed me as hard as they could thinking they could
control me, and it turns out they couldn’t. That enough for you? To know
your nasty little friends tried to make me choke to death on selium and
I damn near tore the city apart because I couldn’t help myself?”
   That wasn’t tiredness in her eyes, he realized now. That was regret,
plain as the sky was blue. She’d counted on Aella’s ability to control
him, counted on her own, probably, and now she was looking at him like
he was a defanged snake who’d grown new teeth.
   “Can you control yourself in the future?”
   “You keep that bitch Ranalae away from me, and we’ll see,” he snapped.
But it was the wrong thing to say, and he knew it the moment it was past
his lips. Her eyes narrowed, her jaw tensed. The second she was done
with him, the second she had a marriage contract or an heir in her belly
or whatever the fuck else she wanted off him – he was dead. Or worse,
she’d hand him over to Ranalae to make nice with Valathea while she
gathered herself for another push in some other Scorched city.
   “I’ll instruct her to avoid you.”
   “You’ll instruct the diplomat of an empire in which you hold no
standing, to stay away from a man in a house where you also hold no
power?”
   “No power?” She snorted. “A formality that will soon be resolved. The
wedding’s in a week, Honding. Try to leave us a city to rule in the
meantime.”
   “Us? Don’t pretend to me, of all fucking people, that I’ll have any say
in matters once you have your contract signed.”
   She sighed and shook her head, the sharpened pins she wore in her braids
clinking.“I’d prefer a partner, at the very least. You know my
motives.”
   “Am I not a prisoner, then?”
   Again, that tension in the jaw.“You never were.”
   Technically. He wanted to screamtechnically into her calm face. But
that was how she did things. Pushed people around until she’d gotten
them positioned to do the things she wanted of them of their own will.
But she’d given his leash a bit of length, and he wasn’t about to lose
it.
   “Then I’m free to leave the palace?”
   Her gaze flicked to theDread Wind, positioned to destroy the city if
she decided to take it by force. Subtle, but effective in chilling him
straight to the core. That was the thing about Thratia. Her best threats
were the ones she never said out loud.“You are.”
   “Excellent. I have an errand to run.” He turned from her, strode toward
the flier like he had every right in the world to take it.
   “Honding,” her voice held an edge, a warning.
   He threw a cheerful grin at her over his shoulder and blew a kiss.“Fear
not, sweetums, I’ll be back before dark. Feel free to smash the city to
pieces if I’m not.”
   “Honding!”
   But he was already on the deck of the flier, the tie-ropes kicked free.
The day was calm, his sel-sense was keener than it’d ever had been. He
didn’t even need the sails as he unfurled the flier’s wings, and took to
the sky.
   Chapter Forty-Seven
   Falston gave the watcher training grounds over to Ripka, and a single
watcher for each dozen recruits that came for the citizens’ brigade.
They were slow to learn, sweating in the sticky desert sun, the monsoon
winds blowing in off the northern coast heavy with moisture. But they
were passionate, and brave, and in the end that was all Ripka could
expect of them.
   She sat on one of the benches lining the training ground, watching the
last of them get put through their paces in the safe use of a baton, a
bandana wrapped around her forehead to keep the sweat out of her eyes.
Soreness suffused her, but she couldn’t remember the last time she’d
been this at peace.
   Lakon spotted her sitting there, broke off his conversation with a
watcher administrator, and strolled over.“Pleased with the results thus
far, Captain?”
   “Better than I could have hoped for. They’re green, that’s for sure, but
they’ve got more passion than most first year watchers I ever saw. At
least this lot isn’t in it for the pay.”
   “Got a lot of opportunists like that, in Aransa?”
   She shrugged.“No more than usual in any city. Living in the Scorched
isn’t an easy life. I don’t begrudge them signing up if their heart
isn’t in it, so long as they do the job and do it well.”
   “Those tend to learn to love the work, in time.”
   “If they have a strong leader.”
   “If they do.”
   He cast her a sly look, and she tipped her head back against the wall,
chuckling.
   “Enough patting ourselves on the back. What are you doing for dinner
tonight, Leshe?”
   She blinked.“Me? Back to Latia’s, more than like. I owe that woman a
fistful of grains for the care she’s given me.”
   “Kalliah, my little girl, wants you to come by to eat with us. Been
talking about that ‘lady captain’ since the day she saw you come by the
station house.”
   “Me? Why?”
   “She’s six years old, doesn’t have to have a reason. And anyway, the
wife and I would like to have you.”
   She glanced sideways to the courtyard, where Enard and Honey were
putting a few late-night recruits through some basic combat training
while Tibal looked on. Falston must have caught the look, because he
snorted and said,“They can spare you a night. You’ve done a lot for
this city. Let us give a little back.”
   “All right, all right. Let me clean up first, I’ll meet you there.”
   “Don’t keep us waiting,” he said, and passed her a note with a hasty
diagram on it outlining the directions to his home from the station
house. She took it and raised both brows at him.
   “Sure of yourself, aren’t you?”
   “Always am.” He shot her a wink and headed back toward his people,
barking orders with every step.
   Ripka shook her head as she stood and waved farewell to Honey, who
cocked her head but otherwise didn’t seem to mind. The woman had people
to train how to fight. Ripka’d never seen her happier. Well, maybe once,
but she was determined to scrub that memory for good.
   She washed up in the watcher locker rooms, found some extra clothes
kicking around the spares room, and followed Falston’s map to a quaint
little mudbrick home with creeper vines growing around the doorway. She
hesitated on the walkway, listening to the soft talk and occasional
laughter of those within.
   Ache filled her from head to toe, every muscle protesting the use she’d
put it to over the last few days. She didn’t belong in a house like
that. Never had, really. Even when she’d been a part of her family, just
her mother and her father, they’d lived in a little one-bedroom
stick-built thing way off on the edge of town. Only plant life her
mother ever bothered tending was cacti and ground-roots for food, and
even those withered after the war. Left to her own devices, Ripka’d only
ever taken rooms or rented apartments; she’d even spent a few months in
an inn, once. Curtains and vines and girlish giggles just weren’t her
thing.
   The map crunched in a fist she hadn’t intended to ball, but there it
was. And it was getting late, anyway. The others knew where she was,
sure, but she was tired straight to the bone. Falston would understand.
   Before she could get halfway turned around the door banged open, and
Falston came rumbling out, dressed in plain brown clothes instead of his
watcher blues, a long pipe dangling from his lips.
   “There you are! Was just about to send out a search party. Don’t tell me
you got lost?”
   “No, Captain. Just took longer than I’d meant to clean up.” She tried to
cover the fact she’d been turning around by shifting her weight. The
squint he gave her told her that particular effort had been wasted.
   He let out a long, smoky sigh, and chucked his head toward the door.“Come on in now, monsoon’s getting sticky and the rains’ll come tonight.
Mata says so, and Mata always knows.”
   “Mata?”
   “My wife! Mata!” He bellowed the last over his shoulder and flowed back
into the household. Ripka clenched her jaw and followed. She wasn’t
sociable by nature, but there were certain flavors of rude she wasn’t
willing to stoop to.
   “No yelling in the house,” came a woman’s sharp reply. Mata stuck her
head around a hall corner, caught sight of Ripka shuffling across the
threshold, and broke into a grin like a thunderstorm.
   “There she is!”
   “Hey, you said no yelling.” Kalliah, the little gap-toothed girl she
recognized from Falston’s office, bounded after her mother, twin braids
swinging.
   “It’s your father’s bad habit, dear, we’re allowed.”
   Falston harrumphed, but hid his smile by taking another long puff of his
pipe.“Mata dear, this is–”
   “I know who this is.” She bustled forward, scooped the girl up in one
arm, deposited the child on her hip and stuck her hand out for Ripka to
clasp. Ripka stared. Mata’d moved faster than any trainee she’d seen
that day. “Nice to meet you, dear, now come in and sit down. Food’s just
getting hot enough.”
   Ripka gave her hand a wary squeeze, mindful of her callouses, and was
surprised to feel matching ones beneath Mata’s fingers and palms. Mata
winked in recognition, then swept away back to the kitchen.
   “Pitfire of a woman,” Falston muttered to himself. “Wouldn’t have it any
other way.”
   “She…” Has hands like a warrior, Ripka wanted to say, but settled on,
“seems nice.”
   Falston roared with laughter, clapped Ripka on the shoulder, and
practically dragged her down the hall to the kitchen table.
   The rest of the house was little more than a blur, but the family table
spilled over into the kitchen, giving Mata just enough room to maneuver
about her business, even when she had Kalliah clamped to her hip.
Falston sat Ripka down on a chair with its back to a window and a clear
view of the exit. Whether he’d done it intentionally or not, she
appreciated it all the same.
   “Fal tells me you’ve been doing great work with these new recruits of
yours.”
   She blinked, taking a cup of sweet-smelling liqueur from Mata’s hand.
“They’re quick learners.”
   “Great teachers make quick learners,” she insisted.
   Falston hauled a huge pot of roast gamebird off the oven-top and placed
it with a clunk in the center of the table. Ripka’s stomach rumbled.
Audibly. Mata laughed. “Thank you, dear.”
   Ripka covered her embarrassment by taking a quick sip of her drink.
Honey liqueur. Laced with selium bubbles. She nearly choked.
   “Are you all right?” Mata came around the table in a second and patted
her firmly on the back. Ripka waved her away, wiping tears from her
eyes.
   “Fine, fine, just… Where did you get this?”
   Falston narrowed his eyes at her.“The open market this morning. Some
Mercer from the west makes it.”
   “Renold Grandon,” she said, rolling the cup around in her hand.
   “Grandon, that’s the name. You know him?”
   “He’s Aransan. Long-time ally of Thratia. This been coming into the city
for a while?”
   “A day or so,” Mata said.
   Falston and Ripka exchanged a long, heavy look.
   “No business at the dinner table,” Falston said.
   She nodded, understanding. When Ripka had arrived in Hond Steading,
Grandon’s liqueur had been nowhere to be found, and so she’d focused on
the bright eye berry cafes. If Thratia had now begun slipping weapons
into the city, it was probably too late to stop them. She’d tried. And
she’d missed.
   “Can I get you something else?” Mata asked.
   “No,” she smiled as she took another swallow without choking. “This is
wonderful, thank you. The little bit of home surprised me, that’s all.”
   Mata gave her a look that said clear as day she didn’t believe her for a
second, but wasn’t about to argue with a guest in her own kitchen.
   Kalliah clambered atop a chair and propped her fists on her hips, head
high.“I’m gonna be a lady captain too!”
   The adults laughed while the girl looked put upon, and the evening fell
into small talk and praise of the food. Ripka grew warmer with every
bite and sip. By the time they were finished, Ripka felt heavier than
she’d ever felt in her life.
   She made her goodbyes and dragged herself to the door, sluggish with
sleep and food, Kalliah dogging every step she took with made-up stories
of the little girl’s exploits as a captain.
   Mata ushered the girl off to bed, then rejoined Falston and Ripka on the
front step, and pretended rather smoothly not to notice that their topic
of conversation had switched from watcher business to the clearness of
the night the moment she appeared.
   “Pleasure to have had you,” Falston said and clapped her hard on the
shoulder.
   Mata swooped in, gripped her hand and pulled her into a half-hug,
leaning close to whisper lightning quick so that her husband wouldn’t
notice, “Look after him.”
   She was away in an instant, but the words clung to Ripka like cactus
thorns.
   “Thank you for your hospitality.” She managed a smile, hoped it looked
genuine, then made her escape before Falston could pick up on the shift
in her mood. She didn’t want to explain to him that his wife was worried
for his safety. Even less, did she want to explain to Mata that what
they were doing now was very, very dangerous?
   And she’d begun it. She’d reached out to Lakon for help and stood in
that forum, swaying the people of Hond Steading to hand over their
wellbeing to protect a city that might not be savable. In a week’s time,
they could all be dust. And that’d sit on Ripka’s shoulders, if she
hadn’t gone and joined them.
   A steady monsoon of rain began to fall, warm and thick. She was soaked
through before she reached Latia’s house, and all she wanted was a dry
change of clothes and a warm bed. When she opened the door, however,
what she found was a full house waiting up for her in the living room.
Every head swiveled towards her as she stepped inside.
   “What’s happened?” she said, reaching instinctively for her weapons
belt.
   “Nice to see you too, Cap’in,” an all too-familiar voice drawled.
   Ripka pushed rain-drenched hair from her eyes and squinted through the
low light. Forge and Clink sat alongside Honey on the couch, their grins
a mirror of one another’s.
   “Holy shit,” Ripka said. “What…?”
   “Got a package for you. From that Honding idiot.”
   Clink pulled a bundle from her severe, black uniform– a Honding
servant’s uniform – and handed it out. Ripka crossed the room shakily,
not quite believing what she saw, and undid the string. A handful of
heavy, fine parchment with the letterhead of house Honding fell out.
Along with a thick, brass signet ring. Detan’s. Had to be.
   Forge whistled low.“Guess he’s got ears after all.”
   “We’re going to a wedding,” Tibal drawled, and Ripka didn’t know whether
she wanted to laugh or cry.
   Chapter Forty-Eight
   The flier’s wheel beneath his hands, the cool air pushing back his hair.
These things combined to ease in him a tension he hadn’t realized he was
carrying. Despite returning to his familial home, this was where he
belonged. The sky was his real home, the selium in the buoyancy sacks
above his head an extension of himself. Nowhere else had ever made him
feel so whole.
   The only trouble was, he had an unfortunate habit of setting the whole
thing on fire now and then. Had been his habit, he reminded himself. His
control was growing by bounds every day. Even without active training,
he knew he had begun to outpace Aella’s expectations. He could see it in
the hunger in her eyes. Girl might be cold as a fish most of the day,
but any progress on her research lit her up like a firemount.
   Best not to think of firemounts, just now.
   He steered away from the palace, put his back to the vista of the city
that was both his duty and his burden.
   He hadn’t known what he was going to do when he took the flier. Had only
been acting on an intense desire to get away from Thratia, from the
palace, from the hulk of responsibilities and terrors that rested on his
shoulders, penning him in. But now that he had the wind in his hair and
the wheel beneath his hands, he was able to think clearly in a way
that’d eluded him ever since he’d found himself bending knee to Aella on
the Remnant.
   If Thratia thought she’d bag him as a husband, roll up his city in some
neat little farce of a contract, and kick him to the whitecoats to deal
with, she was fucking delusional.
   He yanked on the wheel, listened to the wind scream as he brought the
flier hard around and pointed it straight toward the northern coast. He
wasn’t running. Not this time. Not ever again. But he couldn’t do what
he set out to do alone. There was only one person left in Hond Steading
who could help him pull this off without major bloodshed.
   It was just too bad for him that she hated him with a burning passion.
   Detan brought the flier, smooth as oil, alongside the sleek figure of
theLarkspur. The ship’d been docked on the north edge of the city,
far away from the population center, but that hadn’t hidden it from his
view when he’d flown in on theDread Wind. A ship like theLarkspur
was hard to miss– it drew the eye, the heart. Thratia had good taste in
ships, that was for sure. Too bad she had terrible ideas about
everything else.
   “Ho,Larkspur!” he called, and waited. And waited. No one seemed to be
aboard, or no one who wanted to talk to him, anyway. He guided the flier
to the opposite side of the dock, dropped a handful of grains in the
porter’s lockbox and tied off.
   TheLarkspur’s gangplank tongued the dock, and as he strode up it he
wondered who in the pits had been dumb enough to leave it down with a
non-responsive crew on board. Ships like theLarkspur drew a lot of
eyes, and sticky fingers, too.
   He mounted the deck, ready to ream some lackey of Pelkaia’s for poor
ship management, and stopped cold. Pelkaia herself sat in the center of
the deck on a lounge chair tucked up under the shadow of the mainmast.
Her head was tipped back, eyes stuck on the empty sky, a plethora of
bottles scattered across the deck around her. Pools of shadow gathered
inher sunken cheeks and, for just a heartbeat, he thought she was dead.
Her head lifted. She squinted at him a moment, slow to recognition, and
snort-laughed.
   “Of course it’s you.”
   “Skies, Pelkaia. What’s going on here?”
   He crossed to her side and toed an empty bottle. Not booze, as he’d
first thought, though there was a fair amount of that kicking around
nearby. The distinct tang of medicine – sedatives, painkillers – hung on
the air, clinging to Pelkaia like a cloud despite the soft breeze.
   “They left,” she said.
   “Who left?” He hunkered down into a crouch beside her and reached to
check her pulse via her wrist. She didn’t so much as flinch when he
touched her. The beat of her heart was sluggish, but steady.
   “Everyone.”
   Shit. Coss, the crew… Coss. No wonder she was drinking herself stupid
with anything she could find. He hadn’t been with those two long, but
even he could see they’d cared about each other, and Pelkaia’d seemed
considerably less nutty with Coss around to keep her stable.
   “You gonna let their leaving kill you?” he asked.
   She squinted at him.“You are such an idiot.”
   “So I’ve been told. Come on now. Sit up. I’m not your biggest fan, Pelly
my dear, but I’ll be damned if I let you waste away on the deck of this
ship. You know how hard it is to clean a rotten body stain off
hardwood?”
   “Tip me over the side, then.”
   “Pits.” He wrangled an arm under her shoulders and hefted her more or
less upright, got her legs slung over the side of the chair so she’d be
forced to bend them. Every move she made her joints crackled, and it was
real hard to ignore just how firm her bone-braces had gotten since last
he’dseen her. If Coss leaving wouldn’t kill her, the bonewither soon
would.
   After she was more or less stable, he went rummaging through the ship
for some water, and came across cactus pulp juice. Good enough. She
probably needed the extra nutrients.
   By the time he returned she was looking a little more clear-eyed, but
not much. Still managed to sit up straighter when she saw him, though,
so that was something. Pride could get a body through a lot of things.
   “Drink this, you damn fool of a woman.”
   He helped her sip down half the bottle before she started spluttering.
   “Why do you care?” she asked.
   “Saved your ass once or twice before. Seems I’m making a habit of it.”
   “Honding.” The sharpness was back in her voice, the subtle edge of
exasperation. He grinned at her, and her frown just got deeper. That was
as good a sign as any.
   “Need your help.”
   She snorted and reached for the juice. He handed it off to her, watched
her throat bob as she forced a bigger swallow than she was ready for.“What is it this time?”
   “You still want a shot at Thratia?”
   There it was. She was back in a heartbeat, everything about her sharp
and alert. If Detan knew one thing for sure about dear, crazy Pelly, it
was that revenge would keep her walking and talking long after she’d
been buried in a deep grave.
   “Explain.”
   “I’ll need you to work with an old friend of mine, name’s Gatai. He’ll
handle most of the logistics, but he’ll need your particular talent.
Once you’ve finished, you’ll have to return to Aransa, then wait for
Thratia to come crawling back with her tail between her legs.”
   “You think I can make it to Aransa in this shape?” She flung an arm out,
taking in the whole of the emptyLarkspur. Her arm trembled from the
effort, and he wondered if she’d meant that to be part of her little
display. Probably not.
   “Gatai will get you a flier you can handle. You’ll be out of the city,
en route to Aransa, long before the party even begins. You’re in poor
shape, Pelly dear, but we both know you can rally yourself for one last
push if it means a shot at Thratia.”
   Her eyes narrowed with suspicion, but she nodded.“I’m listening.”
   He gathered himself, and explained his plan, such as it was. She
listened with rapt attention, eyes growing brighter as each word fell
into place. When he was finished, he didn’t need to ask her what her
answer would be, but she provided one anyway.
   “I’ll do it, but not alone.”
   “Gatai will provide you with–”
   She kicked one of the empty bottles hard enough that it shattered in a
puff of glass shards.“Your wedding is in two days. That is no time at
all to prepare what you ask, even with your friend’s help. I need a
favor.”
   “Anything.”
   Her brows rose.“I doubt that. But all I need is for you to deliver a
letter to Nouli. Can you?”
   “Absolutely.” If he couldn’t do it himself, he could always hand it off
to Gatai.
   She took a moment to scrounge up some paper from a pocket and scrawled
something brief, folded it, and passed it over. He put it in his own
pocket and stood, offering her his hand. She eyed him a moment, then
took it and allowed him to heft her to her feet.
   “Chances are I won’t be seeing you again, I think,” he said. Skies, he
wasn’t very good at this good-bye goatshit. Pelkaia was a walking
nightmare for him more often than not, a crazy murderous nightmare, but
he still had a soft spot for the nutter. At the very least, he
understood her reasons.
   She squeezed his arm, a soldier’s grip, and offered him what might be
the first real smile he’d ever seen on her naked, true face. “Good
luck.”
   “And you.”
   He left her to prepare, and waited until he was halfway back to the
palace before taking a peek at the note she’d written Nouli.— ⁂ —
   The favor I must ask of you is, as it turns out, for all our benefit. I
will come to discuss matters with you soon. As a token of my faith, here
are the coordinates to a Catari meeting place. I will leave you once our
task is complete, but if you travel to this location, leave a message in
my name– Pelkaia Ariat Teria. The shamans will come for you, and share
their knowledge. May you find your cure, as I could not.
   Skies keep you.
   Chapter Forty-Nine
   A week after Ripka’s plea to the forum, the Honding palace rang out a
peal of bells to mark the day of Detan’s wedding. Birds roosting on the
roof of the stationhouse took to the air, sending the citizens’ brigade
members – Ripka included – ducking for cover lest they be shat upon.
   “Oh happy day,” Tibal said, to the nervous chuckles of many of those
gathered. At least something had broken the tension.
   “For those attending the festivities.” Forge removed a carefully wrapped
parcel containing four wedding invitations she’d counterfeited with the
supplies Detan had sent them. One each for Ripka, Tibal, Enard, and
Honey. Watch-captain Lakon had received his own, legitimate, invitation
the day before.
   Ripka undid the bundle and handed them out to her well-dressed
companions, feeling stiff and awkward in her own fine, carnelian dress.
At least Thratia’s taste in fashion made wearing a high slight and
leggings beneath acceptable. Mobility would be key tonight.
   Latia’d procured somber black suits for the men, subtle pleating
allowing them a greater range of motion, and a dye-dipped dress of
oranges and reds that made Honey look like she was the smoldering wick
of a candle, her hair the golden flame.
   All in all, Ripka’d much rather be wearing her street clothes and
staying close to the brigade. But Detan had sent those invitation blanks
for a reason, and she wasn’t about to let Enard and Tibal walk in there
without her.
   “Dranik,” she said. The young man snapped to attention. He’d really bent
himself to the task in the last week, and had earned himself a position
at the top of the pack. “Keep our people distributed evenly, no clumping
until trouble spots can be identified. Use your whistles to communicate,
as we taught you. No weapons unless you receive the signal from the
palace. Keep yourselves hidden, and safe.”
   “Yes, Captain.” His salute was a mess, but well-meaning, so she let it
slide with a smile.
   “Now,” she said, “let’s go crash this party.”
   Carriages clogged the streets of Hond Steading, all the well-to-do of
the city coming out to be seen, but not get their feet dusty. They
skirted the crowded streets, and Ripka wondered if her invitation was
the only one growing a bit damp in a sweaty palm. It was one thing to
break into a large celebration like this. It was quite another to do so
when many of the attendees were very likely to recognize you. They’d
done their best to obscure their features with carefully applied makeup
and different hairstyles, but there was only so much they could do to
hide their faces – without Pelkaia’s tricks, anyway. Too bad Detan
hadn’t thought to demand his wedding be a masquerade.
   The palace’s great doors had been thrown wide, a contingent of
black-clad guards lining the flower-strewn steps to check for
invitations and weapons. Ripka squinted against the sun, and her heart
beat a little faster. They weren’t all Honding guards. Many wore the
grey coats of Thratia’s personal militia, the same damned uniform she’d
seen flood the streets the night she took Aransa.
   Enard squeezed her hand, just for a moment, and she breathed a little
easier. They were prepared. They could do this.
   They mounted the steps as a group, Ripka at the head, Tibal trailing in
the rear as he was most likely to be recognized– even without the hat.
Honey stuck close by Ripka, her over-the-top outfit and beauty doing a
whole lot of good to keep the guards from looking too closely at anyone
else. It worked. Their invitations were checked, the corners clipped,
and they were in.
   Ripka gasped. The grand hall of the palace, where all the people of the
city were welcome to visit at any time for refuge, had been transformed
into a glimmering garden of light and flowers. How the Dame had mustered
all this up on such short notice, Ripka had no idea. But the walls were
festooned in garlands of flowers, the ceiling a waterfall of lanterns
made of glass in all possible colors. The Dame might not be pleased
about the match her nephew had made, but she wasn’t going to let that
keep her from sending him to his nuptials in Honding style.
   The hall was packed, but not quite as packed as she would have liked it.
Servants moved among them, deftly presenting trays of drink and small
bites to the guests as they waited for the couple’s arrival. The
contract, she knew, by tradition would be signed before the ceremony
even began. The moment Detan stepped into this hall, he would already be
legally bound to Thratia. The binding of hands before those gathered was
only a formality, a way to publicly display their intentions. Marriage
contracts were meant to be a private, intimate affair. Just one more
thing perverted by Thratia’s aspirations.
   A servant swooped down upon her and she took a glass of something red
and citrusy, even though her stomach ached at the thought of what
Thratia was putting Detan through. A guest refusing refreshment would be
remarked upon.
   They spread out a little, though Honey stuck close to Ripka’s side. The
crowd was thickening as the day grew late, morning marching steadily
toward midday, when the couple would make their appearance. No one
recognized her, and so no one tried to make small talk. She was an
unimportant fish in a very, very big social pond. She kept herself busy
checking exits, bottlenecks. At the end of the hall the guests clumped
up, getting as close to the ceremonial altar as possible. She’d want to
stick to the edge, toward the back, to best be able to maneuver through
the crowd, but still be close enough to the center aisle that Detan
could spot her when he entered. If she and Honey pressed just a little
further to the right…
   A hand fell on her shoulder.
   Dame Honding stood behind her, resplendent in teal and navy blue silk
piped with her family’s black. Ripka swallowed, forced a small smile,
opened her mouth to say something, anything, but found no words. She
braced herself for the guards to be called.
   The Dame winked, nodded once, and disappeared back into the crowd.
   Ripka’s knees were jellied.
   A lilting harp took up a slow waltz, and the couple entered.
   Chapter Fifty
   The weird thing was, Thratia didn’t even try to slip anything untoward
into the marriage contract. The wording was as straightforward as you
could get – the usual bindings of house and fortune, the special
paragraphs detailing the split rule of Hond Steading, and how the last
word ultimately fell to the blooded heir – Detan himself.
   He thought it strange, until he realized the actual wording was
pointless. The whole thing was a farce, anyway. She’d label him
dangerous or mentally unstable – or both – first chance she got and ship
him off for Aella to play with. Or worse, Ranalae. He really didn’t like
the way Thratia was looking at him after his slip with the firemount.
Like he was a wildfire that needed to be snuffed, and fast.
   The marching music, as he thought of it, struck up, and he was proud of
himself for not trembling as he took Thratia’s arm in his. Thratia wore
flame red, her hair piled with vicious pins, and she’d gone ahead and
stuck him in the same charcoal-and-ember style she’d filled his wardrobe
with, if cut a little tighter and a little fancier for the occasion.
Maybe she didn’t much like the truth about his power, but she was
willing to flaunt it, for now. He thought he looked ridiculous, but then
he figured even at a normal wedding the groom wouldn’t have much say in
his attire.
   Servants pulled the doors. They stepped into the hall. Detan’s breath
caught as he took in what his auntie had done for this day, for him. She
didn’t know his plans. Didn’t know that he still held out hope that he’d
figure out a way to wriggle free of Thratia’s stranglehold. All she knew
was her nephew was getting married, and to the pits with thereasons or
the bride. She’d decorated the hall like she meant it and, in her own
strange way, he knew she was telling him she loved him. Maybe even that
she was sorry.
   The long aisle to the altar was as red as Thratia’s dress, making her
seem omnipresent, somehow. As if she could reach out and control the
whole of the room with only a thought. Detan put a little saunter into
his walk, because why the pits not, it was his wedding, after all, and
escorted his evil little bride down the aisle with the fakest grin he’d
ever mustered in his life.
   The crowd was silent, polite, whispering behind their hands if they
talked at all. All eyes were on him, on Thratia, and there was a tension
in the room– a thickness that crawled over his skin.
   He found the source in the little grey dots breaking up the guests,
members of Thratia’s militia in their uniform best, but their uniforms
all the same. No doubt the only people allowed weapons in the entire
building tonight. Aside from Detan himself, anyway. He could never truly
be denied his power. Not now that he knew the injections did not work on
Aella.
   Halfway down the aisle, he almost tripped.
   Ripka. Ripka and that blonde-haired woman he’d last seen her with at the
Remnant were in the crowd. She stood a little ways back from the aisle,
angled so that he could see her, but otherwise making herself
inconspicuous. She’d done a bit of fancy work with her makeup and hair,
but he’d know her anywhere. Could see in the set of her shoulders, the
slight wrinkle around her eyes, that she was up to something. Planning,
preparing. For what, he hadn’t a clue. But if Ripka was here, his other
friends might be, too. He glanced away to avoid Thratia following his
eye, and scanned the crowd quickly. No sign of Tibs or New Chum that hecould see, but that didn’t mean they were absent.
   If Thratia noticed the sudden lightness in his step, she gave no
indication.
   They reached the end of the aisle, where his auntie waited with a misty
look in her eye that he tried very, very hard to ignore. The altar was a
simple thing, a hip-height pillar of stone with a copper basin in its
center. Knowing his auntie, it was probably the same one Detan’s parents
had been married with. He hoped not. They’d been through enough trouble
in their lives without him sullying their memory by dribbling Thratia’s
blood into their altar. The knife that matched the set was already in
his auntie’s hand.
   “Thratia Ganal. Detan Honding. You have been bound by paper. Do you
consent to be bound by blood?”
   “We do,” they said in unison.
   A quick slice on the palms, a clasping of hands above the copper bowl,
and it was done. Over in a flash and the faintest of stings. The
audience burst into cheers and applause.
   Detan stood opposite Thratia at the altar, his bleeding hand clasped in
hers, dripping a mingling of their blood into the bowl, and was stunned
at how simple a thing it all was.
   He had married Thratia Ganal.
   Chapter Fifty-One
   The marriage thus sealed, apothiks swooped down upon the couple to
bandage their hands, and Ripka was astonished to see Detan not so much
as blink as an apothik in a sharp white apron rushed at him.
   “He has calmed,” she murmured.
   Servants brought out tables and chairs for those who wanted them, and
the altar was cleared away to make room for a long banquet table at
which Thratia and Detan were sat, dead center, Dame Honding to Detan’s
left and Aella to Thratia’s right.
   Most of the guests stayed on their feet, mingling and chatting and
generally trying to get as close to the couple’s table as possible.
Ripka eyed those gathered with fresh insight. Their city had just been
stolen out from under them, but for the higher-ups of Hond Steading,
life went on. And that meant making alliances with this new couple that
ruled them, slotting themselves into places of importance in whatever
system would emerge in the wake of Thratia’s takeover.
   And everyone knew this was Thratia’s city now, not Detan’s. The amount
of people trying to get close to her while ignoring their blooded lord’s
existence bordered on pathetic. Hond Steading fancied itself the most
future-looking city on the Scorched, but its people were still born of
the homesteading tradition. These were hard people, and they would do
what needed to be done to survive. Ripka only hoped that translated into
fighting for their future, if the opportunity would arrive.
   “Bunch of vultures,” Enard whispered as he sidled up to her.
   “They’re scared,” she said, shrugging.
   “Cowards, then.”
   “Can’t argue that.”
   A young man in a very sharp blue suit stepped in front of Honey.“Good
evening, my dear. I fear we have not yet met. You are…?” He extended a
hand to her, eyes wide with question. Honey pursed her lips and stared
at his hand like she’d never seen one before. His eyebrows drooped. “Ah,
do you not speak Valathean?”
   Honey turned to Ripka.“I don’t like him.”
   Enard chuckled into his drink. Ripka grimaced and inserted herself
between the two, nudging Honey gently behind her. Curse Latia for doing
too fine a job making Honey distractingly beautiful.
   “She doesn’t take well to strangers,” Ripka explained, hoping her
apologetic smile might soothe whatever wounds the man’s ego had taken.
   “I see. And how would one get to know her?”
   Enard stepped forward then, his voice low, but polite.“Not happening,
friend.”
   The man huffed and stomped away. Ripka let out a breath and gave Honey a
side-eye.“Well done,” she drawled.
   Honey brightened.“Thank you.”
   Enard took one look at Ripka’s exasperated expression and almost choked
on his next drink. His amusement lifted her spirits, and she caught
herself grinning into her own glass. That crinkle around the corner of
his eye, the little way he smiled – just tight enough not to be noticed
unless one were really looking. Skies. Everything about Enard calmed
her.
   “Enjoying the festivities?”
   Ripka turned to find Nouli Bern behind her. Someone from the palace had
fetched him appropriate clothes for the evening, and, all cleaned up in
his fresh suit with straightened glasses, he almost looked like a well
man.
   “Nouli–” she bit back an apology. After the Dame had thrown her out of
the palace, she hadn’t even thought of the man she’d risked so much to
steal from the empire. She’d left him here to stew, to prepare for a war
she hoped they wouldn’t have to fight, without so much as a word. And
yet, he looked more relaxed than she’d ever seen him. Her brow furrowed.
   “Whatever you’re going to say, my dear, it’s quite all right.” He drew a
hand through his hair, messing up the careful style a servant had no
doubt worked hard to achieve. There was a glint in his eye, a sly
amusement that she wasn’t quite sure she could trust. “I was hoping to
see you here, in fact, so that I could thank you.”
   “Thank me?” Enard slipped up alongside her, hands easy at his sides, his
glass dangling from his fingertips should he have to move in a hurry. If
Nouli noticed the implicit threat in his posture, he said nothing about
it. He smiled and tipped his head to Enard like he were an old friend.
   “For the introduction to Pelkaia Teria. Fascinating woman. We had much
to discuss. Information that proved very fruitful for my particular
needs.” He held his glass out to her, and she brought hers up hesitantly
to clink them together. His grin was a wolfish thing, taking over his
whole face. “I’m leaving Hond Steading tonight, I’m afraid, to continue
my research elsewhere.”
   “You’re well?” she asked, breathless with surprise.
   “On my way to it.” He leaned forward, squeezed her shoulder in his hand,
and spoke softly so that only she and Enard could hear. “My parting gift
to you, my dear: mind the sweet stuff.”
   He flicked his head toward Detan, who had his head together with Gatai,
the keymaster of the palace, whispering. Ripka frowned, not
understanding, but before she could muster up a question he winked at
her and slipped away into the crowd.
   “What in the pits did he mean by that?” Enard asked.
   Honey said,“Watch.”
   Ripka had seen it, too. Gatai nodded, solemnly, and passed on whatever
Detan had told him to another servant. And another. The information
spread between them, each pausing to tap another on the elbow and
whisper something– lightning quick. Ripka cast around for a nearby
servant, hoping to eavesdrop, but the information had already finished
spreading
   New bottles appeared on their trays, deep green and hauntingly familiar.
They circled the guests, handing out drinks when asked, but pressed the
militiamen to join in the celebrations with a sip or two. Ripka hadn’t
met a guard yet who’d turn down a free drink at a party.
   Detan clapped, a whip-crack above the polite murmuring of the crowd. All
heads turned to the bridal table. He stood, bowed elaborately to
Thratia, then motioned for Gatai to step forward. The man had his own
tray now, one of the green bottles and a glass the only items on it.
   “A gift to you, my lovely bride.” Detan’s voice was firm but gentle.
Even Ripka couldn’t detect a hint of sarcasm in it. “To remind you of
all the time we’ve spent together.”
   Gatai poured. He placed the glass before Thratia. Even Thratia, a known
teetotaler, couldn’t turn down a gift from her husband on their wedding
day. She forced a smile and took a small sip.
   “Fond memories of Aransa,” she said, loud enough to carry. The crowd
applauded as Detan sat back down, the long line of well-wishers
clustering forward once more.
   “Is he getting them drunk?” she asked.
   “Seems like.” Enard waved down a servant who had just finished topping
up a guard. They each took a glass, and a small sip. Ripka wrinkled her
nose.
   “Grandon’s honey liqueur.”
   “Indeed,” Enard agreed. “But something else, too, something bitter…”
   “Golden needle,” Honey offered.
   Ripka swirled her glass, took a long sniff and another, careful, sip.“Fiery pits. She’s right.”
   “He’s not just getting them drunk. He’s knocking them all out,” Enard
said with admiration. And Thratia, who never drank alcohol, wouldn’t
have the slightest clue the brew was off. The hint of sedative was just
faint enough that Ripka doubted even the heaviest of drinkers would
notice. Golden needle was a strong flavor… Nouli and Pelkaia must have
worked out a means to cover it. She grinned fiercely.
   “That won’t take long to work. We should be ready.”
   Enard nodded and sat his still-full cup carefully down on a passing
dish-tray. Ripka and Honey followed suit.“I have a feeling there’s
little we can do until the action starts. With luck, the Lord Honding
will inform us further.”
   “Have you seen Captain Lakon? I should warn him.”
   “Sir, please, wait your turn,” a guard was saying firmly at the front of
the room. Ripka pressed to her toes to see over the heads of those
around her. Tibal stood in front of the couple’s banquet table, swaying
with drink, a cup still clutched in one hand. Not the honey liqueur,
thank the skies, but it seemed Tibs hadn’t needed the extra kick to get
drunk in a hurry. He pinned a hard stare on the guard and slurred. “I’m
family.”
   “Shit.” Ripka dropped back down from her toes.
   “What?” Enard pressed.
   “When did you last see Tibal?”
   “He was right behind me during the ceremony.”
   “Drinking himself stupid.”
   “Oh. Shit.”
   “Right.”
   “It’s all right,” Detan’s voice echoed through the hall. He hadn’t seen
the man was Tibal yet, couldn’t have. Ripka swore and elbowed her way
through the crowd, but she was too far back. There was no way she could
peel him away in time. “Let the man give his blessing.”
   The crowd broke in front of Ripka. Tibal sauntered forward, set his cup
down on the table in front of a slack-jawed Detan, and smirked.
   “Congratulations on the nuptials, cousin.”
   Chapter Fifty-Two
   Detan couldn’t shut his mouth. He knew it was open, knew he should
probably do something about that. This was his wedding, after all.
Walking around catching flies in his wide-open trap was probably not the
done thing. But he couldn’t help himself.
   Tibs. Drunker than he’d ever seen him. And cleaner, too, in a pretty
neat-looking suit that Detan wished he could swap him for. And he had
just declared himself Detan’s cousin. In front of Thratia. Worse, in
front of Ranalae and Aella who, even though they were seated down
Thratia’s side of the table, Detan couldtell clear as day were
practically salivating at the thought.
   “Tibal,” Thratia said, with a surprising amount of grace. She held her
hand out to him and, to Detan’s great horror, Tibs took the clawed thing
and bowed politely over it. “Always a pleasure to see you.”
   “Welcome to the fucking family,” Tibs drawled.
   Detan cleared his throat. Hard. Tibs didn’t seem to notice, the damned
fool. Where was Ripka, anyway? Someone desperately needed to reel Tibs
back in, and it couldn’t be Detan.
   “I am delighted to hear you’re a part of our little family. The Hondings
are so sadly small in number.” Thratia continued with the whole
polite-elegant act. Detan gripped the handle of his fork and considered
sticking it in her eye. He could probably get away with it. At least
until her guards punched him full of arrows.
   Detan stared hard at Tibs and willed him to keep his trap shut. Tibs was
just as inclined to listen to Detan’s attempt at psychic orders as he
was his verbal ones.
   “Bastards aren’t hard to come by in any family, Commodore.”
   He snapped her a salute that was, under the circumstances, pretty crisp.
Detan supposed Fleet soldiers had a lot of practice saluting their
superiors even while toasted.
   “A bastard, you say?” Ranalae leaned toward him across the table,
dissecting him with her eyes. “What side? Who are your parents?”
   “Tibs,” Detan said quickly, “is merelylike family. More like a
brother to me, than a cousin.”
   Tibs rounded on him, and from the surly look in his eye Detan knew he
was about to open his mouth and ruin the whole damned thing by insisting
they were blood-related.
   The first militiaman dropped. Wasn’t as dramatic an affair as Detan
would have hoped. In the interests of not tipping their hand, dear Pelly
had laced the last shipment of honey liqueur lightly. But it was laced,
golden needle pumping through the veins of every grey-coated guard in
the building, thanks to Gatai’s deft efforts.
   The first guard, standing just a few paces away from the table, wobbled
a bit, his knees going loose as string. His head tipped back and down he
went, all that fancy armor making a mighty racket as he connected with
the floor.
   There was a pause. Then a scream. And the guards began to drop, one by
one, some unfortunate guests following suit. Chaos erupted.
   Detan let out a woofed sigh of relief and slipped his hands behind his
head, leaned back in his chair, and kicked his boots up on the table.“About damned time.”
   Thratia sprung to her feet, fists planted on the tabletop, glaring down
those gathered as if she could scowl her guards into getting back on
their feet.“What have you done?” she hissed.
   “Me, personally? Not much, really. Just sat around and waited. You
really should have disciplined your guards better.”
   Black-coated servants moved through the crowd, pretending to see to the
fallen militiamen, but surreptitiously binding their hands and ankles so
that they would be no threat when they eventually roused themselves.
Detan figured there were probably a few knocked heads in the crowd,
maybe a few broken bones, and that was a shame. But still a whole
pits-load better than an all-out war.
   Thratia was on him faster than he could blink. She had him by the front
of his jacket in one iron fist and yanked him to his feet, sending his
chair flying. The tight buttons of his coat and shirt scrunched,
constricting his throat as she dragged him face-to-face with her, his
legs too tangled to gain any purchase. He knew she was strong. Hadn’t
counted on her being powerful enough to toss him around like a doll when
enraged.
   He sputtered, tried to suck a breath down but she gave him a shake.“You
damn fool of a man. This could have been peaceful. Now your city will
have to bleed. But you, first. I’ve seen what you’re capable of. I was
an idiot to ever let you come within a stone’s throw of a firemount.”
   He tried to squawk out a protest, but there was no air left in him. He
got his feet under himself, found purchase, prepared to kick away from
her grip and reached out, grasping for her other arm. The arm holding
the knife pointed at his gut.
   “Hey, Thratia!”
   Thratia half-turned. Ripka decked her so hard a tooth flew.
   Chapter Fifty-Three
   The most satisfying feeling in the whole of Ripka’s life thus far was
watching Thratia’s gore-smeared tooth pop right on out of her smug
mouth. The pain in her fist was well, well worth it. Thratia twisted,
hit the ground with a meaty slap. Ripka was on her in an instant,
grabbed her by the arm and flopped her over onto her stomach while Detan
scurried backward to get clear of the scuffle. Not that he’d ever been
any use in a fight.
   Thratia kicked back, hard as a donkey, and all the wind left Ripka as
her stomach exploded in pain. Detan got ahold of himself, then, darted
forward and whacked Thratia across the back with a chair. Not the
cleanest move, but considering the legs broke clean off the chair, he’d
hit her with enough force to do some damage. Thratia cursed up a bloody
storm and shoved her hands under herself to get upright again, but Ripka
was already there, forcing her down, digging her elbow hard into that
tender spot Detan had made.
   The guards at the door had checked her for weapons, but they hadn’t been
bothered about the silk ties around Ripka’s thighs and upper arms. It
didn’t take long to have Thratia hog-tied and gagged, for good measure.
Spitting mad, but subdued all the same.
   “Got the bitch,” she said, when she’d tested the ties and they held.
   Before she could get to her feet Detan swooped her up in both arms, let
loose a mighty whoop, and spun her about, laughing. Her ribs sang with
pain.
   “My boy,” Dame Honding said, “the poor woman is injured.”
   He pouted a little as he sat her down.“Sorry, sorry. Are you all
right?”
   “Nothing a little rest and wine won’t heal.” She inclined her head to
the Dame, who returned the gesture a little deeper than was strictly
necessary.
   “Captain!” Enard ran up to the table, sweaty-faced and panting.
“Fighting on the steps. Seems those guards didn’t take their medicine.”
   “New Chum!” Detan had never looked so deliriously happy.
   Enard grinned and inclined his head.“Good to see you again, sir.”
   “No time for reunions,” Ripka said. “Who’s on the steps?”
   “Honey and some watchers.”
   “My guards?” the Dame asked.
   “In the mix too, ma’am.”
   “Good.”
   Figured Honey went straight for the bloodbath. Damned good thing she was
on their side. Ripka vaulted over the table, pausing long enough to pick
up a meat-knife, then spun around slowly to survey the situation. The
wedding guests had mostly fled when the fighting broke out, and now all
that was left in the ceremonial hall was a pile of grey-clad militia
being overseen by the servants of the palace. No Ranalae. No Aella. No
Callia.
   Tibal let out a little groan and crouched down by the banquet table,
drawing up his knees as he shoved his head into his hands. Ripka and
Detan converged on him, her fingers going straight to his pulse while
Detan knelt alongside him and rocked back on his heels to watch.
   His pulse was slow, but steady, his forehead warm and clammy with sweat.
   “You got into the booze early, didn’t you?” she asked.
   “Coulda’ warned me,” Tibs growled at Detan.
   “And missed your stunning display of welcome to my new ex-wife?”
   “Ass,” Tibs muttered.
   Detan put a hand on Tibs’s shoulder to steady him. “Missed you too, Old
Chum.”
   “Did you drink any of the honey liqueur?” Ripka demanded.
   Tibs squinted at her through bleary eyes.“I’m still standing, aren’t
I?”
   “Technically–” Detan began, but she cut him off.
   “Right. You handled?”
   Detan glanced to the servants, caught sight of Gatai coming his way, and
nodded.“I’ve got this. We’ll start moving the militia to their ships.”
   “Ships?”
   His expression darkened and he glanced over at Thratia, still thrashing
against her bonds.“I want none of this stain to remain in Hond
Steading.”
   “Understood, Lord Honding.” She saluted him with a wink and dashed after
Enard, discarding her meat-knife for a few of the blades from the pile
the servants were busy collecting from the sedated guards.
   The doors to the stairs stood open, and she could hear the fighting even
from the far end of the hall. The sun had sunk to the other side of the
palace by the time she made it to the stairs. Knots of men and women
contested in shadow, hard-fought but, from what Ripka could see, the
matter was almost settled. There were a great many more grey coats
scattering the ground than black or blue.
   She caught sight of Honey down toward the bottom of the steps. Cursed
woman hadn’t even stuck around long enough to pick up a proper weapon.
She was ducking and weaving, dancing under longer cutlasses to score hit
after hit with a meat-knife. Singing at the top of her battered voice
all the while. Alone as she was, she had her contestants well in hand,
so Ripka jumped into the nearest fray.
   Some grey coats had pushed two watchers against the flat wall of the
palace’s opened doors and were hammering them with sloppy blow after
sloppy blow, but time and numbers were on the militia’s side. They were
four against two, and the watchers they had penned were growing tired.
   Ripka darted in, opened up the side of one and leapt away before the
other could get turned about. One of the watchers closed that
opportunity, took a hit on the hip but shrugged it off to ram her
cutlass guard-deep into the chest of her opponent. Ripka winced at the
pale look on the watcher’s face that had nothing at all to do with
exertion.
   Watchers didn’t see a lot of death, not by their own hands. They were
trained to subdue, if at all possible. But it was damn near impossible
to subdue a determined killer with a sword without doing mortal damage.
She’d seen the results of knock-out blows to the head. If it were her,
she’d rather be run through than knocked silly.
   The second watcher moved in and between them they made short work of the
last grey coat. Ripka gave a little thanks to Thratia for making her
people so easy to pick out. It’d come as a surprise in Aransa, where the
sudden flood of supporters had frightened everyone into their homes.
Here and now, the coats only served to make her angry. And to give her a
target to hit.
   She spun around, looking for a new mark. Honey’d done her work and was
on to another knot of fighting, Enard at her side. Where the fuck was
Tibal, anyway? Not that he was handy in a fight, but still. If he’d run
off to drink some more after that little display of his she’d pull his
tongue out far enough to slap him with it.
   Midway down the steps a couple of the Dame’s guards fought back to back
with Falston, a bunch of his watchers busy taking the last hits on their
own battles. Ripka jogged down the steps, intent on joining Falston in
his defense.
   The watch-captain slipped.
   His heel caught the back of a step, bloodied from the battle, and as
Ripka pumped her legs as hard as she could, urged herself to move faster
toward him, his legs went out from under him, boots kissing the air. He
let one short cry break free and then he was down, the hard stone steps
knocking the air out of him, maybe even breaking his back.
   “Falston!” she yelled, trying to get the watchers’ attention. Trying to
get anyone, anyone at all, who was closer than she was to step in. To
help. But the Dame’s people were hard pressed, now that they’d lost
their third. But the grey coats weren’t.
   Easy as you please, a militiaman turned, stabbed down, took Falston
right through the heart. Ripka screamed defiance, flung herself at the
man, connected hard and went tumbling with him down the steps. Somewhere
in the tangle she got her legs around the man’s waist from behind and
dropped her weapons, grabbed the man’s head and smashed it, hard as she
could, into the edge of a stair. His body spasmed beneath her, jerking
in a way that didn’t mean resistance – only death. She did it again.
Again.
   Enard grabbed her arm and wrested her to her feet.“What –?”
   “Falston.” Every speck of her body ached, elbows and knees scraped and
bleeding. Something clicked alarmingly in her foot when she stood. She
shook Enard off, pushed through the pain to jog up the steps. The
militia was dead, or subdued. Silence cloyed thick in the blood-heavy
air. Somewhere, Honey sang a lullaby.
   His watchers had already gathered around him, a semi-circular wall of
blue. She shouldered through, vision blurry at the edges with fear and
disbelief. Falston lay as he’d fallen, cheeks puffing with bloat as his
blood flowed down the incline of the steps into his face. She dropped to
her knees, scooped his head into her arms.
   The life had already fled him.
   Chapter Fifty-Four
   Dark had fallen on Hond Steading by the time they managed to pack all of
Thratia’s ships full of her people. She had not brought many, so assured
was she of her victory, but it had been enough to take up more than half
the night. Some, he was sure, had skinned themselves of their uniforms
and escaped into the city. Aella, Callia, and Ranalae, of all people,
had disappeared in the fray. He would have to deal with them sometime
soon, that reckoning had always been coming for him, but not tonight.
Tonight he was ridding himself of the monster he’d brought here with
him.
   Detan no longer knew the time, and he didn’t care. He was worn through,
tired down to a core of himself he hadn’t even known existed. Every time
he glanced at Ripka, a little worm of guilt burrowed even deeper inside
him.
   He’d never met the late watch-captain of Hond Steading, but he had meant
something to her. And that meant he had been a good man.
   A man accustomed to blood, surely. A man who’d signed up for a violent
life, who knew someday he might die in the service of the city. But a
man who hadn’t had to die tonight, of all nights, on the steps of the
palace he served, in a hard-fought battle that was, ultimately, Detan’s
doing. Detan could have just married Thratia. Could have given himself
over to her scheming. Could have thrown himself from the roof of the
palace, too, and tonight’s bloodshed might not have happened.
   But he had chosen to fight back. And the consequences, though smaller
than all-out war, had been dire. And he was not yet done.
   “Bring her in,” Detan ordered. It was a strange thing, to hear easy
authority in his own voice when he wasn’t intentionally faking it.
   He’d had a team of the Dame’s pilots take theDread Wind away from the
palace after it had been loaded with Thratia’s people, save one, the
woman herself. Now, his auntie’s flagship pulled up alongside theDread
Wind, and found a handful of her soldiers had already freed themselves
and were pointing harpoons at his ship. Detan sighed.
   Thratia stood alongside him at the rail, wrists bound behind her back
with chains and her ankles sporting matching jewelry. The gag had been
removed, but she’d been silent. Until now.
   “I could order them to knock you out of the sky.”
   “You’re on this ship too, Thratia.”
   “And are you so certain I wouldn’t find that acceptable?”
   He chuckled and shook his head, leaning forward to rest both hands on
the rail.“You forget, O wife of mine, that I’ve come to know you better
in these last few months. You won’t take that route, because it’s final.
I’m setting you free. You can go home to Aransa, regroup if you’d like,
but you can’t do that if you die here, tonight. And you’re never done,
are you?”
   “And knowing this, you would let me go?”
   “You will not come here again.”
   She shook her head.“I am not trying to encourage you to kill me,
Honding, but you cannot be that daft. You know I will come for you. And
this time, there will be no play at peace. I will have this city. I will
have this whole cursed continent. I tried to play nice with you. Tried
to show you why I do what I do – but if you will not bend, then I will
be forced to break you.”
   “Ah, Thratia.” He raised his hands to the sky, wide apart, as if to hug
all of the ships of her fleet hanging there in the night. “I could snuff
every last ship of yours from the sky, right now, and not break a sweat.
Did you know that? What your pet whitecoat was training me to do?
Controland strength. That is what I have, now, thanks to you. This
city is protected. Never forget that.”
   He nodded to Gatai, who signaled his guards to take Thratia, one arm in
each hand, and steer her toward the connected gangplank. He watched her
go, something like melancholy coming over him. Such passion. Such
strength. She could have been marvelous, if she hadn’t decided to be a
monster instead.
   With Thratia removed and the gangplank retracted, Detan held out his
hands as he had when he spoke to her. All around him hushed. He’d made
no secret of his deviation after the wedding. Hadn’t even bothered to
lower his voice as he spoke to Thratia about dashing all her ships from
the sky. There was no point to that, not any more. If Hond Steading were
going to get its lord back, they were going to get him in the full lightof what he was. Maybe they’d accept that. Maybe they wouldn’t. He wasn’t
even sure he was prepared to stick around to find out.
   He knew what they must be thinking, watching him now. That they
suspected him of preparing to do the very thing he’d threatened Thratia
with. Why else would he make them move all the ships in her fleet over
the empty, eastern flats outside the city?
   He didn’t mind the speculation. Truth was, he wanted Thratia to worry a
little. His sel-sense expanded. Slowly, deliberately. Not the desperate
grab he had made when he sent up the firemount. No, this time he really
had learned control. It helped that someone wasn’t currently trying to
choke him to death, of course.
   Thratia’s fleet was massive, but his sphere of influence covered it
easily. He held all those buoyancy sacks in his mind, explored them with
care, felt his way around their valves and internal workings. Then
pushed. Hard.
   Gasps from the deck all around him. The fleet shot away, arcing out into
the night, shouts of surprise from their decks dwindling with distance
just as quickly as the ships dwindled from sight.
   On each and every ship, he’d vented just enough selium to accelerate
them a day’s flight away in a matter of a few marks. And depleted their
reserves enough that they’d have no choice but to return to Aransa.
   Detan slumped against the rail, sweating, panting. Explosions he could
do without breaking a sweat. Fine work, careful work, was another matter
entirely. Those selium sacks weren’t the only thing he’d depleted. He’d
never been so worn through in his life. But he was done, now. It was
over. And the thing he wanted most in the world at that moment was a
long, hot, bath. They’d still be around when he was restored, and the
very thought made him grin.
   Auntie stepped up to his side and laid a blanket over his shoulders. Her
small, bony hand patted the small of his back.
   “You’ve done well today. Come on, let’s take you home.”
   Chapter Fifty-Five
   Ripka stayed close by Detan as the ship shuddered against its dock,
returning them all to the palace. He’d made a show of being fine. Of
being hale. His normal, cheerful, wisecracking self. But when she caught
him at off moments, when he thought she wasn’t looking, his face creased
with pain, with sadness. Whatever had been done to him while at the
mercy of Thratia – whatever he’d been forcedto do – would be a long
time in healing. If such wounds could ever heal.
   Right now, it was easier to worry about Detan’s state of mind than her
own. Everytime she closed her eyes – every time she so much as blinked –
she saw the faces of Falston’s wife, his daughter. Heard the echo of her
whispered plea to keep him safe overlaid with the rattle of his final
breath.
   “Something’s wrong,” Honey whispered.
   Ripka tensed, and leaned against the railing to get a better look. The
palace seemed fine, if dark and a little quiet… Which didn’t make much
sense, now that she considered the fact. The palace should be alive with
light, the servants busy cleaning up the mess, and the Dame’s guard
rooting out any of Thratia’s leftovers.
   “Detan,” she said quietly.
   He paused, one foot on the gangplank. She chucked her head toward the
palace and he looked, really looked, and hissed quietly to himself.“What in the pits is itnow?”
   He turned, taking on an air of command she’d never seen him employ
before, and pointed to the Dame’s guards. “You two, forward positions,
weapons out. We may have hostiles. Auntie, my dear, I suggest you stay
aboard the ship with an honor guard, just in case.”
   “And you?”
   He looked grim.“I kicked this hornet’s nest. I’ll see it through.”
   Ripka and Honey fell into step behind Detan, the two guards taking
point. Ripka itched to be in their place, but Detan had given his
orders, and she wasn’t about to start undermining him now that he was
showing some initiative as a leader. She was half-worried that if she
drew attention to herself, he’d order her back. And then shewould
have to defy him. Some orders, she knew from long experience, were just
plain stupid.
   Weapons readied, the guards opened the door and edged inside.“Clear,”
one called.
   Detan held out a hand to indicate those on board the ship should hold
position and followed the guards inside. Ripka drew a cutlass she’d
collected from some corpse or another and saw Honey do likewise as they
followed him into the faintly lit chamber.
   The entrance foyer for the dock was dark, but the space beyond– to the
hall where the wedding had been held – was bright as day, bleeding light
across the floor. A beacon. A lighthouse warning of dangerous rocks.
   The first guard across the threshold went down, blood fountaining from
his neck, legs kicking as the life poured out of him. The second moved
to forward position, brought his shield arm up and swore as something
heavy thundered against it.
   “Fucking imperials,” the guard barked, retreating.
   Detan grabbed the man’s shoulder and hauled him back, out of the line of
fire that had taken down his comrade. An arrow skittered across the
floor in his now-empty place. Honey drifted forward, pulled by the
promise of violence, and Ripka snapped a hand out to grab her arm and
stop her. She pouted, but hung back anyway.
   “What’s the situation?” Detan asked.
   The guard stared at the kicking corpse of his friend. Detan swore and
dragged the man further away from the door, physically turning his head
to look him in the eye.“Report, soldier.”
   The soldier snapped to his senses at the command in Detan’s voice.
“They’ve got the hall secured. The exterior doors appear to be barred,
though I couldn’t get a good look at them. Armed sentries on every
internal door.”
   “Uniforms?”
   “Light blue.” Ranalae’s imperials. Wonderful.
   “Numbers?” Ripka demanded.
   “I don’t know – fifty?”
   “Shit,” Detan said. Ripka had to agree. He thought a moment, pacing as
he tapped his forehead. “How’d she get them in? Thratia’s been watching
those ships to the north like a bloodhawk, not a one’s made a move. They
even turned some back a few days ago.”
   “Oh,” Ripka said, feeling rather stupid.
   He spun on her.“What? What is it?”
   “I thought… Pits. I thought I was working on infiltrating Thratia’s
network. It all looked the same – talk of political change. Weapons
smuggling. Deviant smuggling. Never quite caught up with her, turned out
I was knocking on a false door, but therewas something going on in
the city. I should have remembered where she learned her tricks.”
   “Ranalae’s got people. In the streets. Same as the night Aransa fell?”
   Ripka nodded, slowly.“I’d bet my life on it.”
   “You might have to.” He tugged at his hair, scowling, then turned on the
guard. “How many of you in the palace?”
   There was a time, Ripka recalled, when Detan would have been horrified
at being so near the man dying on the ground beside him– out of reach,
beyond hope of medical aid. Now, he scarcely glanced the man’s way. And
when he did, there was only a faint flicker of pain in his expression,
quickly overrun by angry determination.
   “No telling what’s left after the imperials swept the place, if they
even did, but there were two hundred of us before tonight’s, uh,
celebration, sir. Lord.” The soldier cleared his throat.
   “Right. Go back to the ship, warn my aunt – ah, the Dame – of what’s
going on and leave her with a guard, at least five, then take the rest
and go round up your fellows. Gather together in this room in no less
than a mark, do you hear me? It’s imperative we use our numbers to
regain control while we have the chance.”
   Detan caught Ripka staring and blinked at her.“What?”
   “You… have a plan.”
   He grinned.“Rippy, ole girl, I’ve changed. Hopefully for the better.
Now go.”
   “Wait.” Ripka stepped in front of the guard. “We’re not alone here.
There’s a whole citizens’ brigade outside those walls, just waiting for
a chance to aid their city. They’re no soldiers, but they’ve had a week
of watcher training. They just need a signal to converge on the palace.”
   “Rippy! You’re brilliant!” He reached to scoop her up again and she
ducked away, swatting at him.
   “Don’t you dare. Soldier, there’s no time to do the signal properly. Can
you use a bow?”
   “Yes, ma’am.”
   “Good. Fire lit pitch arrows at the northern garden trees. That was our
backup plan for tonight.”
   His eyes widened.“Those trees are very tall, ma’am.”
   “Yes, and bordered by stone walls and not near any domiciles. That’s the
idea. Nowgo.”
   He saluted them both and took off at a dead sprint.
   Ripka eyed Detan.“And just what do we do in this plan of yours?”
   “We make a dramatic entrance. And stall like our lives depend on it,
because they definitely do.”
   Chapter Fifty-Six
   The servants, skies bless them, still hadn’t touched Tibs’s old room,
which meant Detan found a whole pits-load of sel to work with. He
hunkered with Honey and Ripka in the foyer where the first guard had
fallen, looking pretty ridiculous as they each carried a massive balloon
of selium on a rope. Honey was looking at hers like she wanted to stab
it. Based on what he remembered of Forge and Clink’s stories, she
probably did.
   “You sure about this?” Ripka asked.
   “I saw Pelkaia do something like this once. Worked a treat. Trust me.”
   “Was it on fire when she did it?”
   “Well, no, but have a little faith, Rip ole girl. The Valatheans will
shit themselves.”
   “Charming.”
   He mimed a noble bow for her.“Miss me?”
   She grinned, just a little.“Yeah. Kinda. Don’t forget, Enard and Tibal
are both in there.”
   “Pah, New Chum is a marvel with a blade and Tibs is far too crafty to
get himself caught in that nonsense. They’re probably skulking about
these halls worrying that we’re in there.”
   “I hope you’re right.”
   He did, too, but he wasn’t about to tell her that. The thought of either
of those two stuck in that room with the Valatheans made his blood boil,
because he had no doubt they’d be used as pawns against him. The very
idea that anyone he cared about would be harmed as a proxy to harming
him made him want to tear the whole damned city down. A sentiment he
needed to keep on a very, very tight leash.
   They’d left those two with Gatai, looking after Tibs’s little
overindulgence, and if Detan was very lucky then they weren’t even aware
of the trouble brewing in the wedding hall. He tried not to think too
hard on how luck had been playing out for him, lately.
   “Think the brigade is in position?” he asked.
   Ripka leaned back to glance out a window, where a smear of yellow light
graced the clouds from the tree fire.“Any time now.”
   “Honey, my dear, you don’t have to join us. If you’d prefer to wait on
the ship–”
   Both women stared at him like he’d just started burping up snakes. “Uh.
Right. Never mind. Onward.”
   As one, they slashed the balloons of selium and let the gas coalesce
into a shimmering cloud above their heads. Wasn’t as much as he’d like
to work with, but the only other source was in the flier, and that would
have taken far too long to siphon out safely.
   He extended his senses, gathered all that gas into a cohesive cloud, and
found the center of himself. Calm, Ready. Onward, indeed.
   He pushed outward, mentally, shoved that cloud of selium through the
door in front of them for all he was worth. Cries of alarm echoed in the
room, shouts and stomping of feet. He swirled the gas up, tracking it in
his mind, envisioning all those lanterns his auntie had dangled from the
ceiling to celebrate his wedding, and pushed. The lights went out with a
snuff.
   The brigade, skies bless them, didn’t need another cue. Shouts echoed as
the bedraggled crew stormed the palace, and it wasn’t long before the
heavy crack of the massive wooden doors breaking down filled the air.
   He gave it a couple of beats, just to let the brigade get inside, then
muttered,“Let there be light.” He reached out, grabbed the selium
trapped in the ceiling, sectioned off a small sliver of it, and fed his
rage into it. The hall returned to light in a violent burst, and it was
a testament to his new finesse that he didn’t blow the damned ceiling
off by feeding his anger into the remaining selium. Those lanterns still
being fed oil caught, burning merrily, while some burst and dripped
flaming oil to the floor. Oops.
   Ripka and Honey were through the door the second the lights came back
on, sabers out, stances ready. Neither of them found shields, but
neither seemed to mind. Especially Honey. That girl had taken up singing
at the top of her lungs, some ancient mourning rite that gave him
shivers straight to the bone, as she waded into the fray.
   Detan hung back, aware of his vulnerability when the blades came out,
and focused on manipulating what selium he had left. Didn’t last long.
   “Honding!” Ranalae’s voice, firm and irritated. “You have until the
count of three to show yourself, or I slit your cousin’s throat. One.
Tw–”
   That was that, then. Time to play a different game. He strolled into the
hall like it was his own idea, hands in his pockets, eyebrow cocked like
he couldn’t quite imagine what they wanted from him. Ranalae and Aella
stood toward the front of the room, Callia huddled at their feet, and a
rather bored-looking imperial lingered just a step behind them. An
unsteady Tibs was held up between two surly looking imperial bruisers in
mussed coats. Detan grinned. At least Tibs had gotten a few shots in.
   “Hold,” he ordered and, to his surprise, the brigade listened. No one
quite put their weapons down, but they backed away unsteadily, pointy
ends still pointed in all the right places, eyes wary as they examined
their imperial contestants. The brigade had Ranalae outnumbered, easily.
But she hadTibs. Pits-fucking-damnit.
   “Now Ranalae, this is mighty rude of you. You’re a guest in my home.”
   “Spare me the polite-lord act, Honding. Order your men to put down
arms.”
   He rolled his shoulders, trying to ignore the fact he’d just seen New
Chum slinking up behind Tibs and his guards, a knife in each hand. Damn
man could move like a rockcat on the hunt when he wanted to.
   “Naw, don’t think I’ll be doing that. I think you’ll be handing Tibs
over, nice and gentle, or I’ll rip this place to itty bitty bits.”
   “You won’t,” she said, rolling her eyes.
   Detan caught Aella’s eye, stared hard at her. “Fucking try me.”
   “He might,” Aella conceded. “He has become increasingly more unstable
since his time in Hond Steading. I suggest a removal from the local
stimulus to enhance further study.”
   “Suggestion declined,” Detan grated.
   New Chum moved. Faster than Detan could follow he swooped in, opened the
hamstring of one man and plunged his blade into the kidney of the other.
Both went down, hard, spasming on the stone, and Tibs stumbled forward,
startled by the sudden freedom, lost his footing and skidded across the
floor. Ripka was there in a flash, grabbed Tibs by the shoulders and
hauled him up and away.
   New Chum pivoted, blades flashing, ducked in low and tight for Ranalae’s
stomach and then – Misol. Detan’d forgotten about fucking Misol, who
worked for Aella, not Thratia. The damned doppel dropped her false face
as a random imperial alongside Aella, half-turned, and with a casual
thrust sank her blade straight through New Chum’s loyal little heart.
   “No!” Ripka screamed. She lunged forward but Tibs had her now, and that
was for the best, because Detan was real sure Ripka wasn’t prepared to
take on Misol. Not now. Not blind with rage as she was.
   Detan was having his own anger problems.
   “You fucking monster!” He reached for the sel above his head, shaped it,
formed it into a spear twin to Misol’s favorite little toy and aimed it
straight at her face. In a blink, it was done. The explosive force
knocked what was left of Misol’s body back against the wall in a greasy,
red stain.
   Aella’s sphere of dampening fell around him, cutting him off. Ranalae
brushed gore from her shoe.
   “Well, that was disappointing,” she said.
   His vision fogged. He couldn’t look at New Chum. Couldn’t look at Ripka.
Couldn’t stand to see either the tears hot on her face nor the blood
pumping, endless, from New Chum’s shuddering chest.
   Pits below, but he wanted to close that distance. Wanted to tell Tibs to
let Ripka loose. They should shove some cloth in that wound, get some
salve– something, anything. But that was a killing wound, and he’d only
be buying time, and with Ranalae and her nasty coterie hovering nearby
Detan couldn’t even get close. Couldn’t even hold New Chum’s palsying
hand as he passed to the endless.
   “Enard,” Ripka said, and her voice was so very cracked and broken that
the mere sound of it nearly cut through Detan’s resolve.
   Pink foam frothed at the corners of New Chum’s lips, stealing his voice,
stealing whatever he might want to say before the end. But he could
still move, if only a little, and he reached, stretched his arm out
toward Ripka, fingers curled as if he’d take her hand.
   And then he went very, very still.
   Chapter Fifty-Seven
   Ripka lunged, Tibs hauling back on her for all he was worth, Honey
singing something dark and dreary and shouts echoed from the brigade all
around but Detan wasn’t watching. Wasn’t even listening, not really. He
heard it all, saw it, but he was fighting his own, internal battles, and
right now he only had eyes for Aella.
   She’d clamped down on him, cut off his sphere of influence. But she knew
how well that’d worked last time, and… Detan’s vision went white. He
pushed against Aella’s shield with all he was worth, and then –
   At first he didn’t understand what he was sensing, what he was feeling.
Not consciously – this was not a thing that one could come to realize
through force, through effort. As Ranalae laughed, lectured, paced and
gloated, Detan sensed, for the first time in his life – for the first
time in many, many lives – the world spool out around him.
   Aella had him shut down, true. But the injections didn’t work on her.
The girl couldn’t touch, couldn’t sense the world he was experiencing
now. He’d gone beyond her. So far out of her reach he couldn’t even
begin to explain it to himself.
   Selium. Everywhere. He knew that, of course, in the intellectual way
that one knows that sandstone makes brown sand and firestone black sand.
Had even caught glimpses of that truth at the height of his control and
power. But this. This was nothing like he ever could have imagined.
Nothing he had words to describe, to contextualize. Wasn’t fair this was
happening to him, probably. Greater minds than Detan’s gravel-sized
noggin could probably glean something of use from this moment. But he
tried. He was always trying.
   And so back to the selium: to it being everywhere.
   He could sense the great, vast network of it. Glimmering fragments–
molecules, Aella had called them in one of her many lectures. Yes. That
was the right term. Molecules of selium drifted in the air he breathed,
the air everyone breathed. He could sense them, tiny as they were –
impossible as they were – seep through his lungs, seep into his
bloodstream. Seep intoeveryone’s bloodstreams.
   With his eyes opened it was like he was seeing another world, the true
world, laid in false and shifting color over the world he could touch
and taste and scent. This world, this true world, wasn’t for his eyes.
It was an extension of his sel-sense – he must derive a better name for
it. Seles? No. Ripka would have a better idea. She always did. But he
couldsee it, such as it was, for human brains were adaptable, clever
things, and this new rush of information had to be processed somehow.
   So it was everywhere. In every pore and breath and cell. He could see
it, as he watched Ranalae. She breathed it in, and it escaped her lungs
to the flow of her blood and bonded there. Stray molecules of selium
which found no blood to bond with leached into her muscles, ate away at
her bones instead.
   Bonewither. Huh. So that was how that worked.
   But the real kicker, the thing that made him breathe slow and easy
because he knew– knew now more than he ever had in his life – that the
world was about to change for the better, was this: he could see how
sel-sense worked. The very thing the Bone Tower had been digging around
in bodies for decades trying to puzzle out. He could just look at
Ranalae, look at any other sensitive, andsee it. He would have
laughed, if his throat weren’t so raw.
   As the selium coursed through a body it hit a barrier near the
brainstem, something he could make no real sense of– Tibs would have
called it a valve, maybe, or a filter. Either way, when he looked at
Ranalae he saw the sel course pass that barrier, enter the brain,
respond to whatever crazy chemistry was taking place there and then the
command reverberated throughout the rest of the selium in her sphere of
influence. And her strength was huge. Ranalae’s sphere pulsed as she
worked at the edge of her ability, slinging selium like it was acid at
her enemies. When he looked at Ripka, all that sel that seeped into her
body reached that barrier and just… stopped. Coursed back through her
blood and escaped through her exhalations.
   But he could change that.
   And so much more.
   His sphere of influence flowed beyond the strength of simple vision. At
a certain point the sight of the world ceased, blended into the horizon
or a wall or any other everyday obstruction. But he was beyond the
lenses in his eyes, now. His senses spiraled outward, a gyrating torrent
of awareness that swept from the heart of the palace and out, out,
encompassing people and beings beyond his ability to count. Folded in
the whole of the neighborhood, the city. Consciousnesses danced like
nodes of light amongst the firings of his own mind, prickles of
brilliant, beautiful, life. Thousands and thousands, sensitive and not,
aged and curled in the womb.
   His own reach took his breath away. Even as he spotted the little blots
of life he never lost sight of selium itself, omnipresent, trapped in
breezes and bellied within the hot, churning core of the planet. Its
presence in the air was so thin no unenhanced eye could see it, and only
the finest of sensitives could detect it. But to Detan those molecules
were as clear as dappled sunlight through leaves, clustering and
thinning and occasionally joining together in numbers large enough to
break through the eddies in the air and float toward the sky.
   But those lights. Those consciousnesses. He selected those with the firm
filters, the tightened valves. It took him only a thought, a moment. He
breathed in, breathed out, then held the fates of all those banal lives
in the wide sphere of his control.
   “Ranalae.”
   Her head snapped up, jerked toward him, eyes narrowed. He couldn’t blame
her. His voice sounded foreign to his own ears. Calm. Distant.
   But he was not calm. Anger boiled in his veins, held at a low simmer,
and though his sense had extended to show him something heart-achingly
beautiful, a tiny sliver of a voice deep in his darkest mind whispered
to him to let loose. To leave this place, this whole city– and maybe
the whole continent, if he were lucky – a smoldering crater.
   But that was an old voice, smoothed over by time and control. Just
looking at Ripka, at her pale and sweat-slicked face, he knew he could
never listen to it. Never go back to the temptations that had called to
him, siren-like, before. He was not his anger’s puppet. He was its
master.
   He would lash out again, if the need arose. Would burn the whole fucking
world if it meant keeping just this city and the people in it safe. He
had notlost that ability, he had simply grown into another.
   And wouldn’t Aella be just delighted to study him now.
   “This city,” Ranalae was saying, and Detan realized she’d been talking
while he watched Ripka. “Is under the martial control of Valathea. Order
your people to stand down at once.”
   “You cannot have this place.” The place where my mother’s bones are
buried.
   She sneered.“I already have it.”
   Ah, right, they were surrounded. Funny how easy it was to forget things
like that when you were busy having a sense-awakening.“And what is it
that you have, exactly?”
   “Detan–” Ripka’s voice, soft and choked with grief. Tibs hushed her,
slipped an arm around her shoulders and pulled her back a step. Sweet,
stubborn Tibs. He always knew when Detan was about to do something, and
he wondered if his old friend could feel him now. Feel the hold Detan
exuded over the whole of this city. If he didn’t, he would soon.
   His question took Ranalae aback. She scowled down her long nose at him.“A rebellious little city, is what I have. A dog gone feral that needs
to be brought to heel. Remember your ancestors, Detan. Remember they
founded this city while seeking fertile ground in the name of the
empire.”
   “Did you ever wonder where my ancestors came from?”
   “Why in the fiery pits would I? This is inane. You have one minute to
disarm your ragamuffins or I will order you all felled. Do not test my
patience.”
   The brigade shifted to ready stances, raising weapons, preparing to
pounce. Detan made a soft, negating sound, and they eased back, but only
slightly.
   “History matters, Ranalae, and this city is the confluence of many
historical paths. The founders of my family – the real founders, those
whose names we’ve lost to the erosion of time – were not Valathean. They
were Catari. They must have been. And do you know why they came to the
Valatheanisles? Do you know why the patient, accepting, kind Catari
would ever kick a family out?”
   Worldbreaker.
   “It does not matter. You will be the last of your troublesome line.”
   He smiled. Folded his hands before his chest and tipped his head back,
staring at the blank expanse of the ceiling though his thoughts, his
sense, was decidedly elsewhere.
   “Because we could do this.”
   “Detan, no!” Tibs cried. But this time – this time Ripka hushed him.
   He didn’t fully understand what he was doing. He lacked the vocabulary
to describe it. Maybe, after this was all done, he could seek out one of
those Catari enclaves Pelkaia was always going on about and ask them to
explain it to him.
   But he didn’t need to know the proper words. There were valves – filters
– set to varying degrees of openness in every banal mind he held. The
mechanism was endlessly complex, but it had a lever. A button, a wheel,
a switch. Whatever it was, whatever he’d later decide to call it – Detan
had never met a button he didn’t want to push.
   He started with Ranalae. Reversing her sensitivity, shutting the valve
tight. He moved on to Aella, then Callia. For the rest… He opened them.
Blew them wide. Didn’t stop until he’d exhausted the whole of the sphere
of his influence, and every one of those banal consciousnesses had
switched over to sel-sensitive status.
   He opened eyes he didn’t remember closing. Ranalae managed to look white
as gypsum, despite the dark cast of her skin. Callia let out a howl to
make a coyote shiver, collapsed to her knees and curled in upon herself,
shuddering.
   Aella had no eyes for her adopted mother. She stared at Detan, eyes
wider than he’d ever seen them, every muscle of her body straining as
she tried, tried so very hard, to take back what was hers. What she was
just beginning to understand he’d taken from her.
   The brigade, the imperials, the Honding guards– they all shifted their
weight uncomfortably, and Ripka was staring at her hands like she’d
never seen them before. She shook all over, Tibs’s support the only
thing keeping her on her feet.
   “What have you done?” Ranalae rasped.
   “See for yourself.” He reached out, snagged disparate particles of
selium from the air and congealed them into a fist-sized mass. A task
that’d once left Coss sweating to drown the desert now came to him
merely as an afterthought. He had no time to ponder what he had become,
only what he mustdo next. “Catch.”
   He threw the selium ball at her. Ranalae flinched backward, holding her
hands up instinctively, but nothing happened for her. The sel sailed
through her upheld fingers, broke into a thousand tiny fragments and
faded as it dissolved into the air.
   “I’ve taken from you your greatest pleasure,” he said. “And given it to
every single banal body in all of Hond Steading. Most of them will be
normal. Many of them will be what you call deviant. But you can’t
enslave a whole city. You can’t send all of them to the mines, and you
sure as shit can’t collect all the deviants up for your little science
experiments now.
   “This is not your city, Ranalae. This is not Valathea’s city. It is not
even the Hondings’ city, though I will do what I can to guide it forward
into peace. Hond Steading is a city entirely of sel-sensitives. This is
something new. Something of hope. And you. Are. Not. Welcome.”
   Fury gathered in her eyes, in every tight line of her body, in the
bulging of her veins and the tendons snaking around her neck.
   “I could still cut you down, you fool,” she snapped.
   He sighed, low and slow, and drew himself up to his full height.“Even
if it were your greatest desire, you wouldn’t. Not if you think for just
a sands-cursed moment.” He tapped the side of his head. “Don’t you get
it? I know how it works. You kill me, that knowledge goes to my grave. I
am the only person alive who can give it back to you.”
   Aella had a knife in her hand in an instant. Detan stepped back, wary,
but she turned to Ranalae and placed the silver edge of the blade
against the whitecoat’s throat. “If you order him killed,” she hissed,
“you die with him.”
   Ranalae paled, and fell silent.
   The door to the antechamber slung open, cracking in its frame, and Dame
Honding swept into the room with a retinue of a hundred guards on her
heels. The sight of them very nearly made Detan weep with relief.
Bluster aside, he really wasn’t sure just how long he could keep
convincing Ranalae he had the upper hand.
   “You’re a little late to the party, Auntie.” He beamed at her, and she
scowled back as, with a snap of her fingers, her people swept in to
detain Ranalae and her entourage.
   “You wouldn’t happen to have anything to do with the widespread panic on
my streets, would you, boy?”
   Even with his awareness a glowing, vibrant thing stretching out to
blanket all of Hond Steading, even at the peak of his power and control,
that razor-sharp scowl still made him flinch and kick at the ground with
one dusty boot.
   “I, uh, made some… improvements.”
   Hands on her hips, eyes narrowed enough to cut glass, she dismissed all
of Ranalae and her people in one gesture and squared her full attention
on Detan.“Explain.”
   He grinned, reached for sel, and said,“Catch.”
   To her obvious surprise, she did.
   Chapter Fifty-Eight
   Ripka awoke to find Honey at her side. The woman slept, curled on the
rug by Ripka’s bed like a puppy, breathing peacefully in the shaft of
morning light that fell upon her. Ripka rubbed at her eyes, scraping
away sleep crust and tear stains alike, and pushed hair from her face.
Had she wept in her sleep? If so, she had no doubt Honey had heard and
come to lend her presence, if not her words.
   Any other time she would have found Honey lying there creepy. Now, she
just smiled. If someone loves you, you revel in as much time with them
as you possibly can. She’d learned that the hard way.
   “Honey,” she said, swinging her legs off the bed. The woman didn’t stir.
She crouched beside her and brushed her hair, gently, away from her
face. In sleep, the woman looked dreamy as a ceramic doll, her features
unlined and innocent.
   It had taken a great deal of time to scrub the blood out of her hair the
night before.
   “Come on, girl, rise and shine.” She gave Honey a shake, and she blinked
awake with a startled, piggish snort.
   “Are we under attack?”
   Ripka sighed and sat back on her heels, dangling her hands between her
knees.“No. Not any more.”
   Honey rolled to her feet and stretched, working the kinks out of her
body from having spent the night on the floor. She hummed a little,
warming her voice, and while once that would have sent shivers down her
spine, Ripka just laughed. Honey pouted at her.
   “What?” Honey murmured.
   “Your singing…” She trailed off, seeing a dark crease form between
Honey’s brows. Pits, but that woman was sensitive about her voice. She
settled back into a cross-legged position, wincing as her sore ribs
shifted beneath the wrap the apothiks had bundled her up in. She was
simply tired of not knowing her friends well enough, of keeping them
distant for fear of… Of so many things. Maybe Honey really didn’t want
to tell her. Maybe she just didn’t know how.
   “What happened?” she asked eventually. Honey’s perfectly smooth face
scrunched up as she worked through the question.
   “I used to sing,” she said, quietly, and fiddled with the hem of her
nightshift. Ripka reached out, took her hands and turned them over, palm
up. The pale flesh there was crisscrossed with countless scars, the
marks left behind from many, many knife fights. She’d ignored them when
she’d first seen them on Enard’s hands, so very long ago now, and been
blindsided by his past. Nothing good lay behind those scars on Honey’s
hands. She wanted to know anyway.
   “What happened?” she repeated.
   Honey curled her fingers to hide half the scars, head cast down so that
her hair fell over her expression. It took her a while, but she found
the words eventually.
   “I loved to sing. My parents…” Twitch of the lips, as if the word were
foreign to her. “I sang for their money.”
   She fell quiet again, but Ripka had learned the texture of her silences,
and this one meant she was building up the words she wanted to say.
   “People wanted to give me money for other things, too.”
   Ripka swallowed and squeezed Honey’s hands. Whatever had happened to her
as a young woman, Ripka could only guess – and guess well, as during her
time in the watch she’d seen some truly horrendous parents – and, in a
strange way, she was proud of Honey for learning to sing with her
knives. She hoped she could learn to sing without them someday.
   A knock sounded on the door, and both women flinched, reaching for
weapons they didn’t carry in their nightshifts.
   “Who is it?”
   “Dame Honding.”
   Ripka gave Honey a sly glance and whispered,“I guess we are still under
attack.”
   Honey smiled. At least she was beginning to catch on to Ripka’s sense of
humor.
   “Come in.”
   The Dame looked surprisingly hale for having suffered a full night of
having her palace ripped apart. She glided into the room, servants
carrying trays of hot cakes and steaming bright eye berry tea on their
hips behind her, ordered the placement of the meals, and then ushered
the servants right back out again.
   “Good morning to you both. My apothiks tell me you both suffered
injuries, but will recover?”
   Ripka pressed a hand over her broken ribs and nodded.“Lots of bed rest
in our future, but we should pull together quickly. Thank you for the
food, and the use of your apothiks.”
   “It is, I’m certain, the absolute least I can do.”
   The Dame grabbed one of the room’s chairs and turned it around to face
them as she sat, her ankles crossed and her skirt lying just so across
her lap. Even in distress, she carried herself with dignity, with
passion and grace. It was as reflexive to her as reaching for a cutlass
was to Ripka.
   “My dear, I know things have moved very quickly here as of late, and I
have come to offer you an apology. I tried to hide you away from the
trouble, to keep you safe, and that was a mistake. I should have
listened to you from the very beginning. My nephew tells that Thratia
claims the empress is dead, and that he believes her. I find I believe
this, too. The empress I knew would never be so crass as to send her
people to invade us, skies forbid. My, ah, people, are putting questions
to Ranalae to find out the truth of the matter.”
   Ripka winced.“I’d rather not know the details of that, Dame. Forgive
me, but I’ve had my fill of Valathean politics.”
   “Understood. But I hope you will be amenable to politics of a different
nature.”
   Ripka frowned.“Of what kind?”
   “Local, my dear. Captain Lakon’s death leaves a very large hole in our
community. I, for one, would be honored if you took up the position.”
   Her throat went dry. She’d never dreamed of being a watch-captain again.
Never even dreamed she’d be a watcher, or allowed to serve anywhere near
them. To have worked with Falston so closely in his final days, to have
been welcomed there and honored… That was a treasure. A memory she
wanted to keep pure.
   And she could never look his men in the eye without hearing his wife’s
voice:keep him safe.
   “I’m sorry, Dame. You honor me. But I’m sure there are viable candidates
in your local watch. I will help you interview and select, if you’d
like.”
   “I’m sorry to hear you won’t take the job, but I will accept your offer
to help in the selection process. Things will be busy, around here, for
a time. What will you do afterward?”
   Now there was a question she hadn’t dared to think of. Losing Enard… Her
throat knotted. She glanced to Honey, to the open admiration there, and
sighed. There was one task she’d promised herself, and Enard too. One
thing she had left to do.
   “I’d like to return to the Remnant Isle prison. The warden there is
corrupt as a sewer line, and I promised myself I’d clear him out and set
things right just as soon as I could.”
   “You are a strange woman, Ripka Leshe, but I see your reasoning. If I
can help in any way – funds, transport, men-at-arms, you have only to
ask.”
   “Thank you, Dame.”
   She stood in one fluid movement and stepped to the door.
   “Dame?”
   She paused, fingers on the handle.
   “Yes, Miss Leshe?”
   “Go easy on Detan, won’t you?”
   She smiled, small and slow and genuine.“I’ll do my best.”
   Chapter Fifty-Nine
   Thratia’s fleet had been spotted that morning, cresting the sandy dunes
which hemmed in Aransa. Just a mark out, as the airship flies, the
people were saying, and the streets of Aransa were abuzz with the return
of their tyrant lord. The fleet bobbed low in the sky, struggling
against heavy winds due toa lack of selium to vent. Pelkaia could tell.
She had a clear view from the window of Thratia’s bedroom.
   More than a mark, probably, the way they were fighting that wind. But
she could wait. She’d waited years. Her body wouldn’t fail her in the
next few moments.
   She peeled off the servant’s face she wore to sneak her way into
Thratia’s compound, watching her natural face come into view in
Thratia’s vanity mirror. Sallowness made her skin yellow-pale, deep
lines traced every edge of her features. She was old. So very old. And
it was beginning to show. She tucked the selium into a small bladder,
and hid it away in her pocket on instinct. Everything was ready. She had
only to wait.
   The knife at her back was almost as old as she was, a Catari blade of
simple make. There was no real ceremony in what she’d come here to do.
No real passion, either. It was something she’d been driving toward
since they day they’d told her her son, her sweet Kel, had gone to the
skies.
   She took no pleasure in what was to come, aside from a job well done.
   One mark. Two. Thratia must be in the city now, tying up her affairs
before returning to her home. It was late. She’d sleep soon. Even
monsters needed their rest. Pelkaia most of all, these days.
   Pelkaia tucked herself into a shadow between the wardrobe edge and wall,
and waited.
   Eventually, the door swung open. She’d lost track of time, of course,
but days and marks and months and years were meaning less and less to
her. It was dark, and Thratia was here, and she was yawning and
stripping her boots off and going through the whole night-routine Detan
had told Pelkaia she did, every night, step by step.
   Such a methodical woman. You had to be methodical to be a murderer.
Pelkaia knew that, too.
   Thratia sat at her vanity, twisted off the top of her scar cream, and
slathered the balm against her cheek– against the mark Detan had left
her, so long ago that the memory was growing hazy. But most memories
were hazy, now. Pelkaia knew only two things: what she must do, and what
would come after.
   Thratia stretched out in her bed, wriggling her muscles, settling into
the covers. She left a light burning, as she always did, fearful of
being surprised in the dark.
   Surprise, Pelkaia thought.
   Marks drifted by again while the cream did its work. Soaked into her
hardened skin and brought with it the Catari poisons Pelkaia had laced
it with. Sometime, eventually, Thratia jerked up in bed, gasping,
clawing at her throat, eyes wide as she scrabbled about her nightstand
for a glass of water. Wasn’t there. Wasn’t a drop in the room. Pelkaia’d
made sure of it.
   “No good,” Pelkaia said, and stepped from the shadows.
   Thratia, to her credit, was on her feet in a moment, blade in hand even
though her eyes bugged out and her mouth gaped open, struggling for air
that just wouldn’t come.
   “You crushed my son.”
   Thratia lunged at her, but the motion was weak, and Pelkaia had no
trouble batting it away with her own blade.
   “Not you, personally, of course. But you signed off on the papers. Put
him there in that landslide for the cover up. Do you know me, Thratia
Ganal? Do you know who’s killing you now?”
   Thratia backed against the wall, barely able to keep the tip of her
blade up. Pity Pelkaia hadn’t trusted her health enough to take Thratia
in a fair fight. She’d like to draw this out, hear what Thratia had to
say for herself. But ultimately, none of that mattered. Never had.
   Pelkaia slit Thratia’s throat. Left her bleeding her last in her own
bed. Put the servant’s face back on, and waltzed out like she’d never
been there.
   There’d be chaos in the morning, sure. A city without its dictator would
be lost for awhile. But Detan knew what was coming, had sent urgent
messages ahead of her to sympathetic contacts in Aransa so that they’d
be prepared. Some man named Banch Thent.
   Didn’t matter to Pelkaia. All that mattered now was the second thing she
had to do,wanted to do.
   Pelkaia walked the Black.
   Chapter Sixty
   Detan found it rather rude that his auntie sent him a summons while he
hung out in Ripka’s room, chatting, instead of coming to visit him like
she had the ladies.
   Tibs a steady presence beside him, they limped their way down the halls,
nursing aches and pains and generally taking their sweet time of it. If
his auntie wanted to speak with him, she could wait. He was sick to the
bone of jumping to other people’s needs.
   They found her sitting on her big chair– she’d pinch his ear if she
ever heard him call it a throne – arms folded across her lap while she
listened to Gatai deliver some dire news or other. Detan pictured
himself in that same chair, and his stomach dropped.
   The moment she sighted them, she waved Gatai away with one hand, leaned
forward.
   “I hope you both are well?”
   Detan exaggerated his limp, just for the pits of it, and Tibs joined in.
The Dame rolled her eyes and slumped back in her chair.“Will you two
ever stop?”
   “Stop what, exactly, ma’am?” Tibs asked.
   “Youare well?”
   “We made it down here without fainting, so I suppose that’s well
enough,” Detan said.
   “And what will you do now, nephew?” Dame Honding asked, eyes like flints
that’d just been put to the spark. Detan looked to Tibs, saw the
question in his single, cocked eyebrow, the hint of a smile in the
corner of his boot-leather lips.
   “Ole Rippy’s got a lot of work to do, getting the Remnant into shape,
don’t you think, Tibs?”
   “It ain’t an easy thing, keeping a prison in shape, that’s for sure.”
   Auntie Honding cut a hand through the air.“Miss Leshe is perfectly
capable of the task she has chosen. What of you, nephew?”
   Detan just kept on looking at Tibs, not daring to glance into the
smolder of his aunt’s expression. “Know what prisons need lots of?
Locks, you know. Gotta’ keep ‘em all in nice and snug – that’s the
idea.”
   “True ‘nough, can’t be much of a prison without locks.”
   “Will you both stop your inane babbling–”
   “Need metal for locks, though. Good iron ore.”
   Tibs quirked a grin, catching on.“Yes indeed, sirra.”
   “And I just happen to know that rotten ole’ Mercer Grandon is sending a
fresh load of the stuff down the eastern caravan route, to a weapons
forge on the coast there. Trunk-loads of it.”
   “Dangerous route, that. Bandits rove those skies.”
   “Bandits?” Detan faked a shiver. “What’s the sky coming to?”
   “Heard tell most mercers running routes down that skyroad hire
mercenaries to see ‘em through.”
   “But wouldn’t you know it, Mercer Grandon is in a pinch. Put a lotta’
money behind some venture that fell through – something to do with
honey.”
   “You don’t say,” Tibs drawled.
   Dame Honding threw her arms into the air and let loose an exasperated
huff.“Are you even listening to me, boy?”
   He gave up the limp and stepped closer to the throne, leaving Tibs just
an arm’s length behind him. Caught between two Honding futures, he
thought, and neither one of them he really wanted.
   “I have never stopped listening to you, Auntie. But this…” he dragged
his gaze over her throne, tipped his chin to stare pointedly at the
family crest carved into the wall above her head. “This is not what I
do. This is not how Ihelp. Not yet, anyway. The world needs a little
time to get used to me in it. And…” He swallowed, thinking of a
particular sunset on a particular beach. “I have some promises yet to
keep.”
   Detan straightened, feeling the ache in every joint, and turned toward
the door. With his aunt’s shadow thrown over his shoulder he hesitated,
just a breath. Then Tibs was beside him, offering an arm to take some of
Detan’s weight. He picked up like they’d never stopped chatting.
   “It wouldn’t do to leave the mercer in such a lurch, would it?” Detan
asked.
   “Wouldn’t be right.”
   “Wouldn’t be gentlemanly.”
   “Mmhmm. And we can’t leave Ripka without proper supplies. It’d be
beastly of us.”
   “Downright traitorous.”
   Shuffling, limping, they made their way down the long strip of red rug
that spilt like blood from the foot of the Honding family throne. His
aunt’s shadow did not waver over his shoulder, but it did not cause his
knees to quake as it once would have. Outside, the night gleamed on, a
bruise-black sky shot through with hundreds of thousands of stars.
   His flier waited. The open sky waited.
   He was leaving Hond Steading, but he was going home.
   Acknowledgments
   The third book in a trilogy is a daunting, exhilarating task to
undertake, and I wouldn’t have been able to do it without a team of
wonderful people having my back.
   First, thank you to my amazing fiancé, Joey Hewitt, who makes sure I do
things like eat and sleep on occasion.
   A huge thank you to all of my writer buddies, whose support and
encouragement are invaluable to me: E A Foley, Trish Henry, Earl T
Roske, Andrea Stewart, K A Rochnik, Courtney Schafer, Gama Martinez, and
Vylar Kaftan.
   Thank you to my kickass agent, Sam Morgan, and all of the team over at
JABberwocky. And thank you to Paul Simpson, Marc Gascoigne, Michael R
Underwood, Penny Reeve, Phil Jourdan, Nick Tyler, and the rest of the
Angry Robots for all their insight and support throughout this series.
   Thank you too, to all the wonderful bookstores who have hosted me. And
to all of the wonderful writers and readers I’ve encountered along the
road: you’re too many to list, but you are invaluable. Thank you.
   And of course, thank you to all of you readers who have come with me on
this journey through the Scorched Continent. I hope you’ll travel along
with me to many strange worlds yet to come.
   About the Author
   Megan E O’Keefe lives in the Bay Area of California and makes soap for a
living. (It’s only a little likeFight Club.) She has worked in arts
management and graphic design, and spends her free time tinkering with
anything she can get her hands on. Megan is a first place winner in the
Writers of the Future competition, volume 30.— ⁂ —
   meganokeefe.com• twitter.com/meganofblushie

Взято из Флибусты, http://flibusta.net/b/671505
