





   How to Choose

   
  a Partner
   Susan Quilliam

























































   MACMILLAN


















   For Michael and Silvano. I could not wish for better friends.









   Contents
   1. Understanding
   2. Being Ready
   3. Looking Back
   4. Not Choosing
   5. Focussing
   6. Connecting
   7. Being in Love
   8. Knowing
   Bibliography
   Acknowledgements
   Picture Acknowledgements









   1. Understanding














   When you make a choice, you change the future.
   (DEEPAK CHOPRA)
   Choosing a romantic partner is one of contemporary life’s biggest adventures. Embark on the quest and we may meet fascinating people as well as some who make us crazy; we
  may rise to emotional heights as well as sinking into fury, fear and depression; we may lose direction completely before at last we find our way to love.
   The real challenge is that we grow. Partner choice is a self-development journey, driving us to learn more about ourselves, about other people, about life and the way we want to live it. Take
  all that on board and we start to realize just how big an adventure choosing a partner is.
   What we may not realize is just how much bigger and more difficult that adventure is now more than ever before in history. For up to now, humankind has been sensible about partner choice. Of
  course lust and romance have had much to do with it– especially around affairs, liaisons or simple flings. But for serious lifetime pairing, people have historically leaned away from the
  romantic and towards the pragmatic. The rich have typically chosen a partner for honour, for fortune, for political expediency and to preserve the hereditary line. The less rich – with less
  to protect – have had more leeway to let hearts rule heads, but have still needed to guarantee financial security, secure practical support and bear children to provide for later years.

    [Картинка: img_1] 
   The Arnolfini Portrait by Jan van Eyck, a celebration of uber-traditional marriage with one main aim– an heir.
   Even in the glorious Age of Chivalry, when a knight’s love for his lady was a key life aim, no one ever suggested that romance should lead to commitment; in the Court of King Arthur,
  Lancelot and Guinevere’s real crime was not so much in adoring each other as in trying to make their adoration the basis for a 24/7 relationship. As historian Stephanie Coontz points out inMarriage, a History, while people have always enjoyed a love story, up until very recently‘our ancestors didn’t live in one’.

   An emotional revolution
   Fast forward to the twentieth century and romance became an imperative. Claire Langhamer, in her bookThe English in Love, explains that this emotional revolution had
  been simmering for a while, but was fully triggered into being by many and varied social changes– though who knows which of these was cause and which effect. The introduction of the
  contraceptive Pill making partnerships less focussed on procreation and more on emotional connection? Women becoming more educated, more highly paid and therefore more able to exit loveless
  marriages? The slaughter of two World Wars encouraging us to seize the day and prioritize short-term intensity over long-term commitment? The rise of social liberalization, mass education, global
  communication? The fall in religious belief, the rise of individual entitlement, the passing of divorce laws?
   Whatever the reasons, somewhere around the mid years of the last century, partnership became universally and inextricably linked with love. And that has tossed all the jigsaw-puzzle pieces into
  the air. For the first time, passion– sexual and emotional – has become the primary benchmark for relationship success. Think of the famous opening line of Jane Austen’sPride and Prejudice:‘It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife.’ Then compare that with the 1949
  pronouncement by Rev. Herbert Gray, chair of the National Marriage Guidance Council, that ‘the only sufficient reason for marrying is that you . . . love somebody . . .’ Where
  matrimonial ads in the mid-1900s – when my own mother was making her partnership decisions – marketed prospective mates on their cleanliness, honesty and weekly wage, our contemporary
  equivalent, online dating sites, now trumpet the glories of ‘Chemistry’, ‘Encounters’ and being ‘Soulmates’.

   Reality hits
   All of which sounds enticing. But the reality’s more problematic. For we now approach partner choice with bigger expectations, deeper confusion and heavier pressure than
  ever before. Blending love into the relationship mix may have promised fulfilment but it’s created huge challenges.
   The first issue is that we need to make more choices more often. Centre-staging love means we’re likely to want to walk away from a relationship if the romance dies, while less insistence
  on marriage plus more liberal divorce laws means we can do so far more easily. The result is that we now have not just one window of partner choice at biological maturity – with an additional
  window if a spouse dies – but on average five windows through a lifetime. We may choose in our teens for first love, in our twenties for first commitment, in our thirties for parenting
  partnership, in our forties for post-divorce companionship, with a final choice for relationship support to take usthrough to death. All that plus any additional liaisons.
   Now set this increased need against decreased opportunity. We meet fewer partners because we are more globally mobile; as never before we move house, change jobs, relocate to new countries. We
  have less chance to create partnerships because we work long hours– then travel home, in different directions, to socially isolated conurbations. Plus, we’re less resourced to find and
  choose a partner because we’re less supported; we take the practical and emotional burden on our individual shoulders far more than when we only had to decide between marrying the boy/girl
  next door or the one further up the street. The final outcome of this blend of more demand and less supply? Meeting a mate has rarely been so challenging.

   Happy endings?
   And rarely so important. As never before, loving coupledom is now regarded as the key task of the human lifetime, and even more vital because we live in a fractured and isolated
  society. Cue that wise verse in Genesis where God says‘it is not good for man to be alone’.
   Which leads us to another problem. For now, religion has less and less place in loving relationships, just as it has in the human psyche, to the point where not only is God absent from
  partnership but partnership has become more significant than God. Philosopher Simon May, in his bookLove: A History, explains that where once we sought meaning in the divine, now that we
  can no longer find such meaning, we seek it elsewhere. Partnership is the source which is now expected to deliver all the hope and happiness that we originally expected to get from the deity.

    [Картинка: img_2] 
   When you think about choosing a partner, do you envision a quest, a crusade, a battle, a treasure hunt . . . or a stroll in the park?
   Now, when we commit to someone, we’re seeking a God-substitute – which means they have to be perfect. Then we have to become perfect God-substitutes for them, offering unconditional,
  everlasting and utterly selfless love. Coupledom has become not only a matter of practical support, continuing the line or personal fulfilment; it’s now the route by which we gain sanctity
  and everlasting redemption.
   Surely that’s impossible? Well, of course it is. Even in theory we can’t reach the ideal expressed by philosopher Friedrich Schlegel: ‘through love, humanity returns to its
  original state of divinity’. And in practice we have regular proof of how implausible that aim is. Proof in our own imperfect relationships, proof in the daily media coverage of failed
  celebrity partnerships, proof in the divorce figures that over recent years have reached 70 per cent in some European countries – and that doesn’t include the endings of unmarried,
  therefore undocumented, relationships.
   Is it any wonder we panic about commitment? Traditional‘one time’ selection limited our freedom, but once paired off we had the possibility of lifelong security, and a
  near-guarantee that if we stayed the course, society would call it a win. Now we fear that if we choose wrong, we will end up not only alone but condemned – even damned – for our
  failure to make love work.
   If we ask older relatives what partner choice was like for their generation, and what contentment, as well as what constraints, they felt, we may be in for a surprise. Our ancestors may not have
  lived in a love story, but with lower expectations– both their own and their partner’s – they may well have had more happy endings than we do.

   New benefits
   All that said, I’m hugely grateful to be living and loving today. For new order brings new benefits. Our partnerships are now our own, rather than those imposed on us by
  family or proscribed by community. More dating ‘windows’ throughout life means more go-rounds to discover which relationship decisions help us thrive. More arenas from which to choose
  mean more ways to find partnership outside traditional boundaries – across culture, belief, class and age range. More freedom to walk away if we pick wrongly means not being trapped for life
  in an unfulfilling half-death.
   And the current challenges are gradually finding solutions. Increased need and decreased opportunity are being met by a battery of ways to meet potential partners. My mother and her generation
  didn’t imagine using dating agencies or matchmakers, but nowadays they often represent the elite level of the partner-choice range. My grandmother and her generation had never heard of the
  now ubiquitous speed dating – though I suspect she would have found it all great fun.
   Then there’s new technology. In the past two decades the internet has extended choice from the few in one’s ‘village’ to millions worldwide; has given us a plethora of
  extra ways to reach out to partners through websites, apps and social media; has transformed the courtship process – albeit with the downsides that any newly born innovation brings. The
  landscape of relationship decision-making has changed for ever; where in the early 1990s, 1 per cent of couples met through technology, now an estimated 33 per cent do and there are claims that by
  2040 this number will reach an astonishing70 per cent.
   This enormous social shift is being supported by the development of new knowledge, new insights, new resources. My mother– who was a school teacher as well as an incredibly wise woman
  – often bemoaned the fact that ‘how to love’ was not on any classroom timetable; her wish is now reality, with the growing crop of relationship courses, workshops, coaching and
  counselling that has sprung up to meet the need. Love may never in history have been so challenging, but perhaps never before have we been so resourced to meet that challenge.

   Starting the adventure
   Which leads us neatly to this book. I come to write it not only through my experiences as a teacher, coach and writer on relationship issues– as well, of course, as what
  I’ve learned through my own partnership decisions – but in particular through my association with the School of Life. Over the years I’ve worked with them, we’ve become more
  and more aware of a huge iceberg of concern around relationship choice, a concernthat reaches across all genders, ages and nationalities.
   How to Choose a Partner is a guide to finding the right partner for you– though be warned, it’s not a map, not a tip-list, not an action manual. Instead, it is a series of
  reflections drawing on psychology, philosophy, culture and ordinary human experience. The book’s wisdom is the wisdom not only of the many professionals who have considered the decisions that
  we make about love, but also of the class participants I have taught and the coaching clients I have worked with.
   The aim is to inform, enhance and support your own thoughts, feelings and insights. Each chapter offers a different perspective on the issues, encouraging you to look not only at where you are
  now, but also at how your past has informed your present, how your criteria for a relationship can be clarified and refined, and how to explore whether you and a particular partner could be right
  for each other. In particular, the exercises and tasks that are scattered through the book invite you to consider the route you are taking on your journey and, if necessary, adjust it– to
  find, recognize and commit to a relationship in which you will thrive.
   Here is the first task, an initial question for you to consider. How do you fit into this contemporary relationship landscape? Where do you stand as regards the‘new deal’ of partner
  choice? Do you see it as an exciting challenge or a hopeless task, a complex puzzle or a terrifying trial? You might want to complete the following sentence. ‘When I think about choosing a
  partner, I feel/realize/wonder . . .’ This simple exercise will tell you a great deal about your hopes, your fears, your attitudes, your feelings.
   As you read on, a final optimistic thought. You are not alone. There are literally many millions of people out there who, like you, are looking for a deep connection. Like you, they have
  previously made the best decisions they could, given their circumstances and resources. Like you, they have sometimes suffered regrets and disappointment but are now once again wanting to love and
  to be loved. There are many options out there when you are ready.
   And, as the quotation at the head of this chapter suggests, by exploring these options you create a whole new set of possibilities for yourself. By taking on the adventure of choosing a partner,
  you have the opportunity of changing your future for ever. Starting now.









   2. Being Ready














   All things are ready if our mind be so.
   (WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE,HENRY V, ACT IV, SCENE
      III)
   It’s very tempting to rush into love. It’s very tempting to think we’re ready to love because we want to – and there’s nothing wrong with that
  wanting. But readiness to even look for a partner, let alone choose one, can be more complicated than it seems. Which is why this second chapter is something of an amber traffic light.
   The first amber question to ask is this. Is now the right time to be seeking a committed relationship? There are many life situations, temporary transitions and extended periods where being
  single is essential. Perhaps our focus currently needs to flow inwards to ourselves because our energy needs to flow outwards– maybe to a demanding job, a sick parent (or child), a sudden
  life crisis. If so, though we may want the support of a relationship because we threaten to collapse without it, choosing a partner may actually be the last thing in the world we should be
  attempting. And not just because partnership’s arguably the second hardest challenge of a lifetime – the first is parenting, if you’re wondering – so it shouldn’t be
  undertaken while vulnerable. But also because, vulnerable, we may choose a mate simply as a crutch; crisis over, life healed, that crutch may be superfluous. Unfair to both parties.
   There are also many life phases when being single is enough– not because we are running on empty but because we are fulfilled. It can be a hugely enlightening exercise to list the people
  close to you then list the things they give to you, the things that enhance your life. Company, conversation, common history – or that simplest of support, a hug. Dothis exercise and it may
  gradually dawn on you that most if not all of your needs are being met at the moment. If so, you may opt to put partner choice on hold – or choose a mate who fills the current gap even if
  they don’t offer the traditional 24/7 comprehensive companionship.

   Staying on amber
   The next amber question is even more challenging. Is it ever the right time to be choosing a partner? It’s said that the best thing in life is to be happily partnered and
  the next best thing is to be happily single – but for some people the hierarchy’s reversed. Some of us are entirely whole without additions, flourish better without distractions, are
  simply happier alone.
   If you suspect you’re more contented when single, consider – and not just as a passing thought – whether partnership may not be what you are meant to do with your life. The
  ideal of singledom is highly valued in many spiritual traditions less because of puritanism than because it frees us to follow our real vocation. The composer Robert Schumann, when he achieved his
  initial musical success, is said to have compared it to his forthcoming marriage in these words: ‘I doubt if being a bridegroom will be in the same class with these first joys of being a
  composer . . . I now . . . marry the wide world.’ If you are seeking a relationship only because it is what ‘everyone’ does, try on for size the possibility that you are not
  everyone. You are special and the best way for you to thrive may be to ‘marry the wide world’.

   Planning
   For the rest of us there are still the practicalities to consider. Do we actually have room in our lives right now to hold down a committed relationship? The reality is that
  online dating, for example, will likely take up an hour each night– the equivalent of a working day each week for anything up to a year.
   And once the search is over, life will be even more overextended. For love may be wonderful, but it demands time, space, energy and a willingness to accommodate. And while statistically our
  formal working hours at the start of the twenty-first century are apparently almost half those we endured at the start of the nineteenth, the additional claims on that time, space and energy– by family, friends, hobbies, housework, travelling, childcare, texts, email, Twitter, Facebook and the miscellaneous demands of living – are arguably double what they were a hundred
  years ago.
   The extra sting in the tale is that the more successful we’ve been in life up to now, the more we’ve developed our career, expanded our social life and gained a rewarding lifestyle,
  the less room we have for partnership. The more established we are in our world, the less flexibility we have for allowing a partner into that world. To love, we may have to sacrifice at least some
  of the rest of our lives. (For moving stories from people who feel they’ve not sacrificed as they should have done, see the website www.notimeforlove.com, which describes itself as a project
  to acknowledge that ‘in a reality where time is finite, prioritizing love, in any form, can be challenging’.)

    [Картинка: img_3] 
   Stop? Go? Wait? Hesitate? Panic and stay pinned to the pavement?
   Try this exercise. Map out your typical week– morning, afternoon, evening. Indicate which of those twenty-one time segments are currently full to the brim, then judge how many segments
  you would – or could – happily drain in order to make room for a relationship. Then ask what having a relationship might drain from the rest of your life and what the rest of your life
  might drain from a relationship. Is the bargain worth it? This is not, you understand, to dissuade you from the journey, but to make the advance planning more realistic.

   Facing fears
   Which brings us to the question of emotional readiness. Here, the elephant in the room is typically the emotion of fear– particularly because choosing a partner also
  involves the intimidating challenge of being chosen.
   When I ask the men and women in my dating classes to think of one word to describe how they feel about partner choice, what is mentioned more than anything else is some variation on the fear
  concept; unease, wariness, anxiety, terror. As well as fear of making the wrong choice, we suffer fear of being rejected– ‘I’m too fat, too shy’; fear of being left on the
  shelf – ‘I’m too old, too boring’; and fear of being shamed by being left on the shelf, particularly when our peers all seem to have clambered down from said shelf and are
  now happily mated. Though on that last point, be aware that one never knows what goes on behind closed doors. Not to encourageSchadenfreude, but many of the couples who seem most happy
  now will be the ones sobbing on your shoulder when they hit their first divorce in a few years’ time.
   There’s also huge fear of admitting the fear. We don’t want to confess – in this age of self-possession – that we’re struggling, that we’re not completely
  fine about the whole partner-choice business.Bridget Jones’s Diary made us laugh at Bridget’s dating struggles not only because her errors redeemed ours but also because her
  fight for control over life and love made us more able to break the silence and admit our own struggle to ourselves and to others. And Bridget’s final triumphant union with Mark Darcy, when
  it came, reassuredus that there could be a good result even for those of us most petrified.
   Since Bridget, many books– both fiction and self-help – have urged a ‘fake it till you make it’ attitude to fear. But there is another way. More recently, and to my mind
  more usefully, we’ve started to embrace the suggestion that vulnerability may be better than bravado. Writer Brenè Brown, in her bookDaring Greatly, brings the fear story up
  to date when she talks about the huge courage it takes to even consider entering a relationship, let alone doing so– but how the act of revealing the fear behind that courage is a key first
  step on the road to successful partnership. This is vulnerability. This is ‘daring greatly’.
   Many of us already do just this. When my class participants confess their lack of self-confidence, I often look round the room awed by what these men and women are bringing to the field.
  Intelligence, personality, talent– but, above all, the courage and willingness, often despite earlier heartbreak, to dare greatly once again. Because of that, surely success is certain. As
  the Chinese proverb says, ‘Pearls don’t lie on the seashore. If you want one, you have to dive for it.’ And we do.

   Available or not?
   Being ready for love also depends not only on being emotionally open but also emotionally available. The crucial instance of this is that, however long it is since our last
  relationship, if we still grieve that story, if we secretly hope to open up its pages again, we can’t move on to our life’s next volume. Yes, it’s common to believe that a new
  romantic connection will begin a new chapter. Scan the tabloid headlines and we find numerous triumphal reports of newly loved-up celebrities who underwent break-ups just a few weeks ago. Scan the
  online dating sites and we similarly discover the many profiles saying ‘We separated last week so now I’m keen to find love again’.
   But the assumption’s unsound. Yes, humans are wired to bond – but when a bond breaks, humans are doubly wired to suffer and that makes us unfit to bond again for a while. Helen
  Fisher, Professor of Anthropology at Rutgers University, MRI-scanned fifteen newly single students and found their brains shimmering with a pain akin to that of going cold turkey from drug
  addiction. So it’s not surprising that post-break-up is rarely the moment when we are emotionally available to connect with another. Problem is, that’s precisely the moment in which we
  may be driven to connect in order to dull the pain – but then, once the injury is healed, find ourselves looking at our newly acquired partner and wondering what on earth we just did.
   So how long does it take after losing a love to be truly and wisely available again? There are no schedules here. For recovery after a break-up, the litmus test is whether we can yet think about
  our former partner kindly– or if not, then at least not with hate but with love’s true opposite, indifference. The delightful blog quantifiedbreakup.tumblr.com – by a blogger
  herself in ‘relationship recovery’ – lists several calculations for this, from ‘at least two years’ through ‘half the length of the relationship’ to
  ‘one week for every month you were together’.
   When it comes to a variation on the theme of losing a partner– bereavement – the schedule may be more protracted; Jeanette Winterson’s downbeat but arguably accurate appraisal
  in her bookWritten on the Body, in which her heroine tries to come to terms with her lover’s leukaemia, is ‘To lose someone you love is to alter your life for ever.’
  Whatever the situation, the only definitive truth is that being ready for the next relationship will always take just as long as it takes.

   Being grown-up
   The final, tough-love question about readiness is this. Are we yet‘grown-up enough’ to pick a partner? Mischievously, that very wording is a test; if we’re
  willing to even consider the question, we’re probably on the way to ready, for success in partner choice often lies in the ability to question ourselves with mature and undefended
  honesty.
   On this point, we turn to philosopher and social psychologist Erich Fromm, whose master work,The Art of Loving, is arguably the seminal statement of our contemporary view of what love
  can and should be. Fromm outlines in detail what he sees as the supremely‘grown-up’ task of partnering another human being. In his view, mature partner choice needs the self-belief
  that we are worth loving, the self-insight to know what we need and the self-control to let go of our needs where necessary. Plus, the ability to teach a partner how to love us, the humility to
  learn from a partner how to love them and the insight to know that love doesn’t just consist of partnership but constitutes, in Fromm’s words, the ‘only sane and satisfactory
  answer to the problem of human existence’. At which point, most of us will run screaming from the room, thinking that for this weight of responsibility we’re not only unprepared right
  now but will always remain so.
   Let’s not panic. If we can realize that the ‘art’ Fromm speaks of is not one we’re born with but one which, like any art, we learn, then the challenge becomes more
  manageable. Love is surely not a single act but an ongoing course of lessons. Which means that at this point, as we choose a partner, all we really need to ask ourselves is whether we’re
  ready to fill in the enrolment form.
   Of course, it isn’t only we who need to be ready for love, but also the partner we choose. So it’s more than a good idea to also do due diligence on a potential partner’s
  readiness. We’re not talking here about the relentless first-date quizzing that makes the person on the other side of the restaurant table reach for the bill after the first course, but a
  compassionate awareness of whether the person we are beginning to care for is truly free. Do they have time and room in their life for love? Are they over their past relationship or actually still
  yearning? Are they reaching out to us through genuine attraction or to fill a life gap?
   If the answer to any of these questions is‘unclear’, we may be wiser to step back and allow them the time and space they need. And allow ourselves to find a partner more ready to be
  chosen.









   3. Looking Back














   Study the past if you would define the future.
   (CONFUCIUS)
   When we actively search for a long-term partner, most of us tend to think ahead. We map out goals. We create aims. And the more serious a partnership we want, the further ahead
  we tend to think– not just to meeting a new date, but to moving in, to getting wed, to which gender our first child will be. There’s wisdom in that. To choose well we have to gauge
  what the long-term will deliver.
   But there’s wisdom too – as Confucius says – in first putting attention back to the past. How has it made us who we are? What does that mean for who we choose? It’s not
  only that our past partnerships have been preparation for this moment, giving us both ability and vulnerability around loving. It’s also that every event in our past – from the moment
  we were born, let alone from the moment we began to date – has taught us messages about partnership and partnership choice. Whom we choose may be our decision alone, but why we choose will be
  influenced by a whole lifetime’s cast of characters and scenes.

   Your influences
   It’s an interesting exercise to look back at our personal cast-list and our personal life-plot. Was it our mother, father or neither who taught us, by what they said or what they did,
  which kind of relationship we should aim for and which we should avoid? Was it our siblings, our friends, our teachers or our culture that told us we should choose a partner for their intelligence,
  their earning power, their beauty or their biddability? Was it being brought up in a conflict-ridden family or being a member of the debating society that has made us believe so completely that
  perfect partners either never argue or that, conversely, they regularly do? Is it our parents’ ruby wedding anniversary or our own recent relationship break-up that leaves us convinced either
  that love lasts for ever or that it is utterly impossible? And what role do Jane Eyre, James Bond,Fifty Shades of Grey orThe Selfish Gene have in all this?
   So review. Who have been your biggest influencers on how best to choose a partner? What has most shaped your thoughts and feelings about the kind of person who will be the best mate for you?

   •   Parents, siblings, extended family
   •   Religious or cultural leaders, teachers
   •   Your peer group and their partners
   •   Your past loves, requited or unrequited
   •   The media, be that news, books, films, the internet, television
   •   Traumatic events in your own life or the lives of those close to you
   •   Positive, affirming events in your own life or the lives of those close to you
   Now take this further. Consider what messages all of these have passed on to you. What definitions, expectations and presuppositions have you learned about the kind of
  relationship you should want, and so what kind of partner to pick? It may help to complete the following sentence:‘I learnt from ____ that the best relationship is ____ and so I should
  choose a partner who ____’, and to complete that sentence at least ten times to get a range of differing messages. Then, see if there are any patterns, any surprises, any wake-up calls. Most
  crucially, how have these life lessons affected the partner choices you’ve made up to now?

   Love maps
   For more insight let’s turn to sexologist John Money, who calls these lessons ‘love maps’ – templates of how we see ideal partnership and how we see our
  ideal partner. Money suggests that we gain love maps instinctively and early – often between the ages of about five and eight – as if we’re picking upan accent in our native
  language. So we don’t question, perhaps hardly even notice, the internal image we’re building of relationships, the specifications we’re drawing up about the kind of partner we
  want – often down to race, height, build and manner. When we find someone fitting thatmap, we’re compelled. Yes, we may know on a logical level that an alternative mate may be just as
  good for us; but somehow this person just feels right.

    [Картинка: img_4] 
   Navigating one’s way through the highways and byways of the heart can take concentration, courage and an accurate road map.
   Very often, the person feels right because they remind us of someone who felt right earlier in life or because we believe that with them we can reclaim the‘right’ life events. One
  way of describing this would be ‘transference’; we ‘transfer’ affection from someone who was important to us in the past to someone important to us now – or to someone
  we want to be important to us in the future. A tone of voice, a sideways glance, a certain strength, a certain gentleness – all of a sudden, typically without knowing why, we feel we’re
  safe. No matter that we don’t know this person and they don’t know us; we feel inevitably drawn in.
   It makes absolute sense to gravitate to the people most like the ones who have made us happy in life, and much of the time that’s a wonderful strategy. But get expectations confused, and
  it can go wrong. We can end up assuming a prospective partner will deliver the same kind of wonderful experiences that our parents (or our best school friend, or our very first ‘crush’)
  gave us. But partners don’t necessarily deliver, because they’re not that person and this isn’t the past – realizing this and accepting it is a key lesson of partner choice.
  Professor Sue Johnson tells how when she met her husband almost the first words he said to her were, ‘I am not going to live up to your expectations’. In the face of such insight how
  could she do anything other than marry the man?
   Think back to when you were very young– say just starting school. Now identify three figures – perhaps parents, teachers, siblings – or events – successes, wins,
  triumphs – that at that period in your life made you feel deeply valid and loved. You’ll not only consciously look for a partner who holds out the promise of replicating those feelings
  but also be unconsciously drawn to any potential partner who holds out that promise. Good idea, with just one caveat. You may also be drawn to any partner youbelieve can deliver, even if
  they can’t. So try before you buy.

   Bad experiences
   There’s an added twist and it’s this. Sometimes we get drawn to partners not because they could give us something wonderful but because they could give us something
  terrible – in the hope that they may also give us the chance to overcome that terror. So we may choose someone who reminds us how withdrawn our father was or how dominating our mother was,
  someone who creates demanding situations that remind us of exam failure in school or the time we got made redundant from work. We find all this painful but familiar, troubling but known; we aim,
  this time, to resolve, to cope, to survive.
   And it often comes good. Often, we get to turn things round, to cope with challenges in later life in a way we didn’t in earlier life because we are now older and wiser. And the fact that
  we cope not only gives us victory here and now, but helps to resolve the previous sense of failure. The Israeli poet Yehuda Amichai wrote that ‘people use each other as a healing for their
  pain’ – but in this case we are actively choosing each other for the pain, in hopes of getting the healing as part of the package.
   Again, think back to your early life. Which people or events made you feel unloved or taught you hard lessons about what it means to relate to others? Do these memories link to your adult
  partners and the experiences you have had with them? What does that tell you about your partner-search strategies?
   There is also, of course, the impact of life events so traumatic that they create a deep vulnerability in us, so we end wary, grief-stricken, furious or in some way simply too wounded to make
  good partnership decisions. We may be confused about what love means, unable to recognize it when it happens, unresourced to take it when offered or give it when needed. The obvious– and
  publicized – traumas are bullying, abuse and violence, but other seemingly less serious occurrences can wound us too. If our world rocks on its axis – perhaps from a house move, a
  hospital stay, an absent parent – we can end up thinking love will let us down. If as a child the only way we got any attention was when we were punished for bad behaviour, we may end up
  prone to tantrums in our relationships. The shock has not only broken our spirit, but dented our capacity to make good partner decisions.

   Moving on
   All the above works both ways. For our partners too the‘past is prologue’, as Shakespeare wrote, and what happened in a partner’s life before the scenes they
  write with us affects not only who they are but also who they arewhen with us. Partners steer their course by their own love maps, make their own transferences, have their own stream of
  negative or traumatic characters and episodes from their own lives. So they may choose us because our ways of being wonderful remind them of wonderful people and events in their past, or because
  our ways of being difficult remind them of difficult people and events in their past. They too may need to align their expectations, to work through the difference between their hallucination and
  the reality that is us– and to cope when we deliver the pain that they unconsciously wanted to resolve through being with us. If a partner seems to be reacting in a way that says more about
  their history than about the present reality of our relationship, it’s worthwhile paying close attention.
   It is not all bad news. Though it’s tempting to believe that everything that comes to us from the past is detrimental, it’s not so. Normal, kind, human love from those around us
  – whether given in childhood or in adulthood – not only provides us with solid ground for loving but goes a long way to redress any harm that comes our way. And while single intense
  experiences of betrayal can wound us, similar experiences of happiness, acceptance, success and security can emotionally vaccinate us against mistakes. For most of us, past bad experiences are not
  a car crash on the relationship road, but simply a bump on the way.
   Plus, we don’t have to bring the past with us into the present. We can keep the bits that seem more helpful and most healthy; the others we can throw overboard. To which end, you may want
  to look back at all the lessons you’ve ever learned about love. Which messages are horribly outdated and need to be junked? Which are irrelevant to you now you’re a grown-up? Which
  messages are so idealistic or perfectionist that no one has the slightest chance of matching up to them, and by continuing to try to match up, you are simply feeding your guilt monkey? Which were
  taught to you by people whose experience is not yours, whose word you no longer believe, or whose life you have no intention of living? Which lessons did you learn through events that were so
  painful that you need to cull them from your memory bank?
   We can cull. With new awareness we can unbelieve our past beliefs, let them go and take on board a new and more helpful set. And if we can’t do that alone, it’s entirely possible
  – and utterly wise – to get help; there is a wealth of knowledge and guidance to help us overcome relationship issues. So if you suspect that some events or people have left you
  vulnerable to wrong choices or misguided decisions, let me encourage– even beg – you to see a professional. We can’t change the life we’ve lived, but we can rethink it,
  understand it differently and so resolve the pain.
   Confucius said that the past needs to be studied in order for us to define the future. Once studied, though, we may want to complete the lesson and move on.









   4. Not Choosing














   I believe marriages would in general be as happy, and often more so, if they were all made by the Lord Chancellor, upon a due consideration of characters and
      circumstances, without the parties having any choice in the matter.
   (ATTRIBUTED TO SAMUEL JOHNSON, BOSWELL,THE
      LIFE OF SAMUEL JOHNSON)
   If you agree with Samuel Johnson, you’re in a minority. Most people deeply believe that the best life outcomes are created by active and informed decisions. More, that if
  we ourselves don’t make those decisions, we give up the chance of those best outcomes; we surrender control, cede responsibility and in so doing resign ourselves to compromise – as well
  as tacitly admitting that we’re not up to the task of managing our own lives.
   But let me argue the opposite. Maybe Johnson is right, and letting go of choice is a good idea. It’s not just that love is one of the few areas in modern society where we may still cling
  to romantic notions of fate determining our future. But also, by handing over control to others, we might avoid repeating past mistakes or making new and future ones. When dealing with
  ‘winged Cupid painted blind’, as Shakespeare put it, taking our own blind prejudices out of the equation may be no bad thing.

   Heads or tails?
   Opt to step back from active decision-making, and the first possibility open to us is to toss a coin. When it comes to deciding a lifelong commitment, doing that literally may
  not seem wise, though devotees of the I Ching might disagree. A friend of mine did once use the system to decide whether to marry her boyfriend; the coins said‘no’, which in hindsight
  proved to be excellent advice. And in Luke Rhinehart’sThe Dice Man– as its title suggests, a novel about a man who makes all choices thus guided – several
  partner-decisions are made that way. The result is whole-scale erotic abandonment under the absolving aphorism ‘Who am I to question the dice?’
   Let’s consider next the American psychologist Barry Schwartz, whose work focusses on the reasoning behind choice. His argument is that randomness is a ‘good enough’ option.
  Once certain standards are met – we like each other well enough, we have similar life goals, we’ve checked issues such as substance abuse and criminal record – there are really no
  good reasons to discriminate between one suitor and the next. Chance, Schwartz suggests, might well be the ‘most efficient’ but also the ‘fairest . . . most honest’
  option.
   Interesting ideas, though most of us are wary of making key life decisions with so little information. Which is why I don’t advise either coin-tossing, dice-throwing or absolute
  randomness. But I do suggest that to circumvent our biases and introduce a little serendipity, daters should, online, approach one random person in every twenty profiles they access, and offline be
  open to the occasional blind date, opportunity dinner from a colleague or fortuitous encounter at the supermarket checkout. Randomness certainly can open a different, less blinkered and therefore
  sometimes better door.

   Destiny vs growth
   The issue of fortuitous encounters brings us to an interesting double standard here. We may recoil in horror at the thought of haphazard chance determining our future life
  partner, but label that chance‘destiny’ and we’re entranced by the prospect. On the one hand we feel the need to be in control of our romantic choices; on the other hand the
  thought of losing control can be hugely seductive.
   Enter Professor‘Chip’ Knee of the University of Houston, and his work on ‘destiny love’, his term for the conviction held by some couples that kismet rather than
  coincidence brought them together. Believe this, and we are likely to feel strongly and instantly attracted to a partner, the relationship is likely to be passionate and intense, and a magical
  certainty of success is likely to hover over the whole enterprise. As a perfect example, see that scene in the filmSleepless in Seattle where Sam Baldwin describes meeting his first wife,
  speaks so movingly of taking her hand to help her out of a car, and– just with that initial touch – realizes ‘we were supposed to be together . . . and I knew it.’
   Sam Baldwin was lucky– thanks to a good scriptwriter creating the traditional rom-com happy ending – his ensuing marriage worked well. But the ‘destiny’ assumption may
  not survive the cold light of real-life daily commitment, because it comes with certain built-in structural defects. The problem is, if fate has generously provided us with a predestined partner,
  there may seem no need for effort to make the relationship work – and if effort is needed then that particular romance is clearly not as predestined as we thought it was and probably needs to
  end forthwith. Professor Knee’s work suggests that those who believe in destiny love are likely to react badly when things go wrong, likely to exit relationships lightly, likely to move on
  quickly – to their next destiny.
   Compare and contrast couples convinced of what Knee calls‘growth love’, who see partnerships as developing slowly over time, with any glitches along the way meaning nothing
  sinister, but simply indicating a need for more effort. Growth love couples tend to get involved more gradually, have lower expectations, but are more capable of the long haul. It is certainly
  worth remembering that while belief in fate-determined love – whether on our side or on a partner’s – might add a breathless magic to romance, belief in growth-based love might
  mean the difference between a ruby wedding anniversary and being left at the altar.

   Arranged
   Letting destiny decide partner choice may seem like giving away control, but at least destiny (or fate or God or Providence) is all-seeing, all-knowing and infallible. Letting
  other, all-too-human beings decide partner choice seems a far worse bet, for ordinary folk are all too capable of confusion, ignorance, error and their own personal prejudices. Which is why, while
  accepting support on partner choice from friends and family may be helpful, it’s usually better to block one’s ears and step away. ‘You should’ and ‘you must’,
  even when voiced by onlookers with the best of intentions, should not govern partner decisions.
   What does have a place, and a long history of some success– it’s even mentioned in the Bible – is allowing others to ‘arrange’ possibilities which we can veto, or
  from which we make our own pick. Don’t forget that until very recently, especially if a partnership was the way to cement political alliance or unite feuding families, it made perfect sense
  for elders rather than the happy couple to make the courtship decisions. In Britain, for example, it is only the last two generations of the monarchy that have had any kind of genuine personal
  freedom over marriage choice. (When certain of those love marriages failed, there was in somequarters a general feeling of ‘Well, what did they expect?’)
   If done well,‘arranged’ can triumph, delivering the objectivity of chance, the reassurance of destiny, the pragmatism of growth. Like chance, an externally determined partnership
  can avoid personal bias or the temptation to let lust dictate terms. Like destiny, it can remove the burden of choice, allowingus to relax rather than agonize about our own responsibility. Like
  growth-love, ‘arranged’ can mean we don’t demand instant compatibility, or call foul if things don’t prove perfect always and for ever.
   But there does need to be a high level of competence here. Matchmakers– whether they be friends, family, the JewishShadchanim or the upmarket urban introduction service–
  need to know us at least as well as we know ourselves, need to know our partners well enough to judge the fit, and need to have a deep understanding of how relationships play out. The problem is
  that this level of wisdom is unusual in today’s society. Few people witness others profoundly and consistently enough to judge what is needed in a mate. Few relationships are sufficiently
  exposed to public gaze to deliver a real understanding of partnership dynamics. Which is why, though popular, modern matchmaking services can be infamous for high prices but low results. That said,
  in the right context and if the arranger is insightful and practised, ‘arranged’ can work well.

    [Картинка: img_5] 
   Let us be grateful we don’t live in 1917. Herbert Rawlinson and Alice Lake in the one-hundred-year-old black-and-white filmCome Through.
   A quick note on the extreme of‘arranged’, those serried ranks of mass marriages where hundreds of couples meet for the first time on their wedding day, their partner choice made
  entirely by religious leaders. For most of us, this is somewhere between incomprehensible and appalling; how on earth does it ever work? The answer is that spouses’ contentment with the
  arrangement is constructed on their deep belief that they have the blessing of the deity; that their culture, community, family and religion will support them; and that love grows over time rather
  than instantly strikes. Despite individual horror stories, that’s a pretty big resource to bring to the table.

   Online choice
   Does online dating take control out of our hands? At first glance, no; we seem to have a multitude of options. But look more closely and we see that what we get is pre-sorted.
  Most sites cherry-pick attractive users and profile them on the home page to catch incomers’ attention. Many sites also highlight profiles of particularly popular users and present them as a
  separate and therefore more noticeable subcategory. We’re getting a choice, but only after the site filters have done their secret work.
   And then there are the algorithms. It was way back in 1959 that a group of Stanford University maths students working on a final class project programmed their IBM 650 computer to pair up
  forty-nine men and forty-nine women according to their answers to a questionnaire; the result was one marriage and a deserved A-grade for the dissertation. More than half a century on, and that
  early study has led to a billion-dollar industry; almost every online dating site has a visible‘questionnaire’ and they all have hidden algorithms to guide us firmly towards matches of
  our age, location and gender of preference. Choice is, if not taken out of our hands, at least slightly compromised.
   There’s also another problem: dating sites only do the top level of the job. Yes, most sites match those who, on tick-box criteria, are similar, which replicates the surface-level criteria
  that attracts us to a mate; some sites then aim for more, with personality questionnaires or hormone-based matching systems. But while these matching systems maintain that the criteria for
  compatibility are well-established and that it’s therefore possible to predict relationship success, in fact ‘neither of these assumptions is true’. (I quote here from a recent
  research review of studies of online love-search by Professor Eli Finkel of Northwestern University, Illinois.) By allowing sites to try to match us, we are not only limiting our own options, not
  only failing to take into account the deeper compatibility factor, but also entrusting our fate to completely unproven systems.

   Trusting chance
   I’m not suggesting that abandoning choice altogether is either a good or a bad idea. But it is a possibility. What you may find useful is to think about what degree of
  abandonment you’ve used in the past without even realizing it. Have you ever started chatting to someone near you at the theatre, during a party, on a train – then spent a delightful
  half-hour even though that didn’t lead to romance? Probably. Have you ever met a partner by chance, circumstance or sheer happy coincidence? Again, probably. Have any of your intimate
  relationships been 100 per cent predetermined and predicted? Probably not. Start to gauge the extent to which you’re comfortable with serendipity and you may feel more inclined to accept it
  as another tool in your decision-making kit.
   Coin-tossing, random chance and a belief in fate are all quite risky. But handing over some of the burden to others is certainly worth considering– so perhaps let online dating sites
  screen the undesirables or let matchmaking services do the legwork. Allowing ourselves to widen our initial love-search beyond our personal preference is also useful – so perhaps make a
  deliberate effort to contact (or start talking to, or agree a date with) someone who on the surface doesn’t seem like a possible. Gathering emotional support is vital to get us through the
  process – so perhaps actively enrol trusted friends and turn to them for guidance, consolation and celebration.
   Above all, when it comes to choice, be prepared to occasionally take a risk, accept uncertainty, let go of control. As ex US president Jimmy Carter once said,‘Go out on a limb.
  That’s where the fruit is.’

    [Картинка: img_6] 
   From time to time, they both wondered what the next forty years of marriage would bring.









   5. Focussing














   Focus is about saying No.
   (STEVE JOBS)
   Surely the more options we have, the more chance we have for love. Especially if we blame previous romantic disappointments on a lack of alternatives, then richness and variety
  of choice seem the obvious keys to success. Which is why the first question we may be asking about our love-search is how to find‘more’ possibilities.
   This is a great question if we’re short on options, if our circle of single contacts has dwindled to nil; if we live in a town – or country – where we know no one; if
  we’re not meeting any potential partners either at work or at play. It’s an especially useful enquiry if we are in a majority gender for our life-stage: research suggests that men in
  their twenties have only half as many partner possibilities as women do, but that in the forties the balance begins to reverse. If we can’t find a partner in these situations, the main
  problem is certainly the numbers. We’re a seller in a buyers’ market andthe solution is to find more buyers.
   The way forward is to steer clear of babbling brooks, avoid stagnant pools and find slow rivers. Stripped of the metaphors, what I mean is this: stay away from gatherings with no chance of‘get-to-know-you’ conversations, or where meeting up again is unlikely. Don’t get trapped in a social life where you see the same people over and over again. Instead, put your
  energy into groups which offer a steady and regular through-flow of different individuals, in situations where there’s opportunity to mingle, meet, chat and bond. That’s a slow river,
  and so long as it contains people with a similar background, outlook, values – it will deliver partner possibilities. Just as importantly, it will also deliver a fulfilled and fascinating
  existence as a base camp from which to embark on the partnership climb.

   Finding a slow river
   How many slow rivers do you have in your life? If the answer is not many, and getting‘more’ is your issue, pause now and brainstorm what your rivers could be;
  include as many ideas as possible, without censoring even the maddest thoughts. Start a new hobby? Go to a partnered dance class? Attend dating events? Organize your own dating events? Put a call
  out on Facebook? Put a call out on your local radio station – it worked for Sam Baldwin, aforementioned hero ofSleepless in Seattle. Take off on a three-country tour– it
  worked for Elizabeth Gilbert, author ofEat, Pray, Love.
   Plus– if it feels comfortable – sign up to a dating website. Whether we like it or not, online is without question the most accessible slow river currently available – one in
  which the whole agenda is to bond and the entire process ensures a regular through-flow. To enhance the expansion project, join a variety of sites – some paid, some free, some new, some
  established. Once on, be open-minded about possibilities, proactive rather than reactive and as flexible as possible about non-essential parameters. (Though not foolishly flexible. Tick the
  ‘200 miles away’ location box on websites and you’ll very soon face the reality of long-distance relationships and find yourself switching the location specification to
  ‘same town’.)

    [Картинка: img_7] 
   Stagnant pools. It’s worryingly easy to create a life so pleasant, established and secure that it delivers absolutely zero chance of meeting any suitable partner.

   More or less?
   Having noted the above strategies, and taken the first steps towards action, forget the advantages of‘more’ and embrace the benefits of ‘less’. And not
  only because quantity is less crucial than quality in partner choice, but also because the human brain treads a fine line between having a wide range of options and having too many for sanity.
   In a famous experiment by Professor Sheena Iyengar of Columbia University, customers at a grocery store decided what jam to buy; of those who had a choice of twenty-four jams, only 3 per cent
  ended up purchasing, while of those who had a choice of six jams a full 30 per cent bought. Given we likely don’t use the same criteria to pick a partner as to pick a preserve, let’s
  also mention a less-famous but more relevant survey which gave parallel results. Prospective partners who looked at either four or twenty-four online profiles made more picks than those who looked
  at sixty-four. Significantly, the participants who were presented with only four options took time to consider everyone, while those who were presented with twenty-four or sixty-four options made
  only cursory decisions.
   The point here is that too many options plunges us into what’s called ‘shopping mentality’. With a profusion of possibilities, we suffer mental overload. We get confused. Then
  we get anxious about getting confused. And then, to combat the increasing emotional paralysis resulting from that confusion, we try to simplify. Which in turn leads to our over-considering
  irrelevant criteria, rejecting without real consideration, and craving the ‘next good thing’ rather than focussing on the current one. (This last is part of the reason why the constant
  forward momentum of the left/right swipe on some dating apps is so addictive.) Finally, when it comes to online dating in particular, even if we think we’ve found The One, we may still suffer
  buyer’s remorse because the wealth of choice available suggests there’s someone even better out there for us. If you’ve ever been enthusiastically emailed for days then suddenly
  dropped, you were probably the victim not of someone’s rejection but of their shopping mentality.

    [Картинка: img_8] 
   If only choosing a partner were as simple as walking into a supermarket. On the other hand . . .
   What all this means is that any website which trumpets– as one of the global players did very recently – an astounding 197 million members might seem like a magnificent opportunity,
  but may well prove a disaster in disguise. Our real challenge, offline as well as on, is not how to expand possibilities but how to limit them, how to reach an equilibrium where we think clearly
  enough to make good judgement calls.

   Elimination
   The solution here is, not coincidentally, to take the route that nature intended. Intelligent elimination– the kind of shedding that Steve Jobs refers to in the quote at
  the head of this chapter – is the way evolution means us to mate. Walk into a room full of a hundred possibles – or log on to a website of a million – and we’re doing just
  as our ancestors did thousands of years ago fromthe vantage point of their caves, unconsciously excluding those who don’t meet our basic criteria (right gender, right age, right tribe).
  Elimination may sound cruel, but it’s the way our instincts are meant to operate in the initial going – not saying ‘yes’ to one but ‘no’ to many,not making a
  single positive choice but first applying wholesale negative screening.
   In a society more complex than the Neolithic, some screening’s done before we even begin. Dive into any ‘slow river’ where we feel at home – a study group, a sports
  association, a dance course – and it’s likely the event organizers have already aimed their publicity to eliminate people not in the tribe; we then informally cut the field by choosing
  to attend only certain events and then to mix only with certain people in the room.
   Online, the system’s parallel. From the start, some elimination’s already done for us because we enter a world where those not looking for love have already self-excluded; many sites
  also helpfully (though covertly) screen out those with relationship-threatening issues such as drug abuse or long-term mental illness. We further narrow the range ourselves by signing up to sites
  that target our tribe even more specifically; there are now dedicated destinations for specific age groups, individual cities and almost any special interest you can name, along with some you
  can’t even imagine.
   Once signed up, the site tick-boxes create further focussing on surface compatibilities such as smoking (or not), drinking (or not), whether we follow sport or how passionately we love Chinese
  food. The algorithmic‘matching quizzes’, if well done, then disqualify on deeper issues – though of course they can’t predict face-to-face chemistry, and, as mentioned
  earlier, there’s little correlation with long-term compatibility. Happily, the recent introduction of categories for ‘serious’, ‘fling’ or ‘affair’ now
  also achieves the elimination of those wanting a relationship of a kind we’re not seeking, which is a huge relief for all those online daters single and looking for marriage who – up to
  a few years ago – kept bumping into those married and looking for a fling.

   The funnel of love
   All this pre-sorting is helpful. But the bottom line is that, however small the partner pool we fish in, there’ll come a time when we need to do our own, more individual
  eliminations, partner by partner. My favourite metaphor here is one offered by the late Israeli psychologist Ayala Malach Pines. She imagined a kind of ‘funnel of love’ – her pun,
  not mine – into which we pour everyone we meet. But just as a funnel gets narrower as it deepens, and lets fewer and fewer elements through, so our criteria naturally get more and more
  focussed as we eliminate potential partners, until we eventually accept only the ones who really suit. (The criteria we use to create and operate our funnel form the substance of the following
  chapters of this book.)
   What often stops us from using the love funnel effectively is a kind of fear of focussing: a nervousness about elimination, a wariness of being choosy, a belief that we shouldn’t –
  for which read ‘aren’t entitled to’ – dismiss partners who mismatch, or partnership options which don’t appeal. ‘I need to spread the net wide or I won’t
  find anyone’. . . ‘If I set the bar too high no one will want me’. . . ‘I can’t say no to her/him, they’llfeel so rejected’. This panic is totally
  understandable if we’ve had – as we all have – past heartbreak. But it’s nevertheless misguided; we do need to focus on what we want rather than going with the flow.
  I’m not a believer in ‘The One’, but unless we start saying no to those who aren’t right for us, we won’t get anywhere near those who are.
   If you suspect that fear of focussing is holding you back, then try this. Imagine yourself sitting somewhere you feel most comfortable, and knowing that your‘right for you’ partner
  is nearby. You’re happy because he or she is there, you know that they care for you and you for them and you allow yourself to want them and to want the relationship you have with them. (If
  you’re tempted into caveats or qualifications of the ‘nobody loves me’ or ‘that’ll never happen’ kind, set these aside for the moment.) Now imagine your partner
  arrives. Imagine seeing them, hearing their voice as they speak to you, feeling their touch as they reach out for you. Allow yourself to experience their attention fully and know that you deserve
  that attention.
   The point of this exercise is not to imagine what a future partner might actually be like. It’s to have a mental experience of wanting that partner, feeling entitled to want them and being
  wanted in return. As explained at the very start of this book, partner choice is a quest, and as with all quests it’s good to have a bit of feisty courage – courage to believe in
  yourself, courage to believe there are partners out there you can choose, courage to believe that there are partners out there who will choose you. Given that belief, you’ll find it much
  easier to keep setting aside those you don’t want and keep heading towards those you do.

   Specifying
   So how do we begin? How do we create our personal love funnel? The answer is to get more specific. Specificity clears the mind, orders the thinking, makes us feel in control,
  helps us understand what we’re doing. We are right to believe that specifying will help us towards a result, even in an area as unpredictable as partner choice.
   The historical wheel has come full circle here. When marriage decisions were made on measurable criteria– age, status, earnings, childbearing potential – specifying was the way to
  narrow the field. But when romance left its place in the wings and took centre stage, we sniffed at being too precise, because we wanted to let our emotions rule – if we loved each other,
  surely the details were irrelevant. Now things are coming back into balance. Much of the current coverage of partner choice presents its lessons in the form of specified lists – as seen on
  every online dating site, in many relationship-advice articles, and via the relationships section on Amazon. The current crop of urban tales featuring heroes/heroines who found their
  princess/prince through detailed specification inspire us not only because we too want to magically conjure up our own fairy-tale partners, but also because we recognize that specifying is
  necessary to the process.
   Of course we shouldn’t over-specify. It’s not only that, life being what it is, we can’t have everything we want. It’s also that many of the details of what we want will
  be irrelevant to our goal of a good relationship. It may matter hugely that a partner shares our love of animals, but if they do love animals – or if we fall for them regardless – it
  likely won’t matter at all that they have blue eyes rather than brown. Proof of this is courtesy of another study by Professor Eli Finkel, in which he asked speed daters their partner
  criteria just before the event; said daters then completely ignored their own benchmarks when they started mingling only minutes later. However convinced we are that we need a partner who’s
  extravert/introvert, dark/blonde, big/small, if we find the right person, size won’t matter.
   Even so, once our partner pool is big enough, specifying is the perfect starting point. It keeps us on logical track. It boundaries the challenge and keeps it doable. It engages our minds for a
  task which can otherwise all too easily become over-influenced by our hearts and other more lustful parts of our anatomy. Perhaps unexpectedly, specifying also opens the door to deeper
  realizations. Nobel Prize winner Daniel Kahneman, whose bestselling bookThinking, Fast and Slow recently alerted us to the subtleties of decision-making– or in other words, choice
  – points out that specifying doesn’t just call on logic but also on a more instinctive awareness. He believes that we ‘improve . . . intuition by making a list then sleeping on
  it.’ When we create a partner specification, we will often mysteriously find ourselves exploring much wider issues, not just about surface criteria but also about what we need from a partner
  on a deeper level, and how to instinctively recognize that when it arrives.

   Your wish-list
   Specifying is the perfect starting point– and the right first step. Our assumption, offline as well as on, is that we should start with what we ourselves are
  ‘selling’ and only then consider what we want to ‘buy’ from a partner. But that’s not only the wrong metaphor – partnership is not about trading but about
  relating– it’s also the wrong way round. To attract someone, we first need to know what kind of someone to attract. We can’t set the GPS effectively until we know the
  destination.
   If you’ve already made a wish-list of the specifics you want in a partner, take this opportunity to revisit it. If you haven’t already made a list, here’s your opportunity.
  Write down all the elements which for you headline your ideal mate. Gender, age, appearance, cultural background, religious belief, lifestyle, career, earnings, leisure patterns, hobbies,
  interests, location – if you run out of categories, most online dating sites include an extensive tick-box list. Avoid vague, avoid abstract – the idea is to get a detailed, defined,
  quantifiable starter guide. Then prioritize in order of importance; as I’ve said, you can’t have everything, so your top five at least need to be the things you couldn’t live
  without.

   Deal-breakers
   Next, list the things you couldn’t livewith, your deal-breakers. This part of the process aims to make sure we don’t find ourselves involved with (worse,
  married to) someone utterly unsuitable; it’s the bottom line which helps us less to find The One – for there are many Ones – as to make sure that The Totally Wrong One
  doesn’t slip under our guard because they are tempting. Here are four classicdeal-breakers, and that’s about the number to aim for – more, and you’re probably drawing the
  net too tight.

   •   Different and uncomplimentary sexual leanings – such as a potential partner’s being gay whereas you need straight, or vice versa
   •   Mismatched relationship aims – such as their wanting marriage where you want casual, or vice versa
   •   A conflict in deep values – such as their being highly religious whereas you are allergic to anything remotely spiritual
   •   Incompatibility of interests – not a gap in enthusiasm, which can often be bridged by encouragement, but a serious mismatch, such as their
          being a passionate sailor whereas you are aquaphobic
   It’s tempting not to consider deal-breakers. But we should be clear about what we don’t want, especially the elements we are uneasy about not wanting, as
  they’re the ones we may most unwisely give ground on. If we truly couldn’t live with someone who has a dangerous job, for example, it’sfairer to everyone to be aware of that,
  rather than denying, compromising, then wobbling.

   A‘normal, happy day’
   Wish-list made, deal-breakers noted, we next need to specify in a slightly different way. Rather than defining a partner, envision a partnership. What if you woke up one weekday
  morning five years in the future, having made the perfect choice. Imagine the rest of the day– not special, not peak experience, just normal, solid and satisfying. What might be your plan
  for this ‘normal, happy day’? In what location would you see yourself? What would you do? How would you spend time – with your partner? By yourself? Who else might be there? What
  sort of lifestyle would you have? How would you feel? Above all, what would be especially rewarding about the relationship you’d created?
   This exercise gives new perspective by drawing two crucial distinctions– between dream and actuality and between partner and partnership. Envisioning what we’re after not as fantasy
  but as reality strips away many of the inessentials – things we may hanker after but are irrelevant to our happiness; we may find ourselves altering our wish-lists as a result. Plus the
  exercise broadens awareness out again, from the partner we might choose to the everyday life we would have with that partner. (This everyday life is, of course, the whole aim of choosing a partner
  in the first place: I did at one point wonder whether this book should have been called ‘How to Choose a Partnership’.) Enhancing detail in this way leaves in place the core needs, but
  allows us to form a resonant and motivating picture of what we want our future to hold.

   Welcoming invitation
   How to use these specifications? When doing distance dating, the wish-list and the deal-breakers inform the tick-boxes, while the‘normal, happy day’ exercise will
  give you the material to write the free-text elements of profile and partner specification. There’s an added bonus here. Research suggests that, online, it’s more compelling – for
  which read attractive – to structure your profile not as a ‘dating CV’ (age, interests, holiday plans) but as a welcoming invitation to join you in a relationship; the
  ‘normal, happy day’ exercise provides all the essential raw material for such an invitation.
   If you’re motivated to put in the work, you could also use the material you’ve gathered to design and apply your own customized matching algorithm. This is precisely what was done by
  PhD student Chris McKinlay, who apparently had something of a eureka moment when he realized that, rather than relying entirely on personal charisma, he could use his talent as a mathematician to
  develop a personal formula for a perfect partner. He did so, found love and wrote the bestselling book to prove it. Details ofOptimal Cupid– and ofData, a Love Story,
  from female counterpart Amy Webb– are in the bibliography.
   If partner choice is face-to-face– speed dating, blind dating, meeting with an online suitor or simple right-place-right-time serendipity – the wish-list, deal-breakers and
  ‘normal, happy day’ specifications are vital touchstones. With these kept firmly in mind, we can begin to tally vision with reality, our desires withflesh and blood, and start asking
  ourselves the crucial questions: Does this person fit our theoretical specification and, if not, does that matter? We may well feel it doesn’t, if in other ways there is a fit. Does this
  person contravene any of our deal-breakers, and if so, is that contravention writ in stone? It may well be resolvable with some negotiation. Finally, but most importantly, could this person help us
  create the daily life that we want for ever? If there’s a real possibility they can, that’s the best basis for continuing.









   6. Connecting














   Only connect.
   (E. M. FORSTER,HOWARD’S END)
   It’s surely clear that good relationship decisions are based on knowing far more about a partner than whether they simply tick the headline demands of our wish-list. To
  return to the ‘love funnel’ metaphor, the more we filter down our options to fewer possible partners, the more we need to aim for a broader and more extensive understanding of each
  one.
   For there’s an addendum to the earlier-mentioned jam experiment. Repeats of the research suggest that the ‘shopping mentality’ problem is not only down to too much choice but
  to too little information. Increase our knowledge about each jam (that is, each partner) and choice becomes not only easier but also more accurate, more emotionally intelligent, more successful.
  So, as we recognize which partners may be right for us, we need to view them from different perspectives, to witness them in different situations, to learn about them and allow them to learn about
  us – in short, to connect. The slow-river approach again, but this time trawling the deeper waters.
   Let’s start with the simple fact of meeting. Once upon a time, we knew we were smitten because our eyes met across a crowded room (or at the village well, or as we were tilling the
  fields). The natural, biologically driven ritual of partner choice is founded on real-life contact.
   Yes, some historical courtships were pursued at a distance. Europe in the Middle Ages was awash with ambassadors journeying from royal court to royal court while bearing portraits of beautiful
  princesses in the hope of arranging advantageous marriages. But without meeting, such long-distance strategies often went horribly wrong: King Henry VIII of England failed to even consummate his
  marriage to fourth wife Anne of Cleves because when she arrived for the wedding, he realized that‘she is nothing as fair as she hath been reported’.
   To really connect with– and make a decision on – a partner, we need to see, to hear, to literally feel them. It was anthropologist David Givens who in 1978 mapped out for us the
  instinctive process of natural attraction. We glimpse a potential partner from afar, then engage by eye contact, then by talking, then touch, eventually getting close enough to smell, taste and, if
  the stars align, be sexual. At each stage we parallel our conscious appraisal by unconsciously rating the other’s physical appearance, the way they move and speak, their hormonal invitations.
  At this early stage, closer and closer contact filters partners, not only because of what they say and do, but also because of the way they say it and do it. (Those who make the cut are likely not
  only to attract us but to be attracted to us; if face-to-face connection leads to a ‘yes’, it’s likely to become a virtuous, circular reinforcing ‘yes’.)

   Twenty-three days
   Actually, we know all this. We intuitively trust face-to-face contact because we realize it gives us essential knowledge on which to base judgement. We are reluctant to develop
  a relationship before meeting someone, because we know that without face-to-face contact we can’t make a full assessment. Which is why when it comes to the distance dating of new technology
  we may be fascinated but we’re also wary; traditional partner choice follows a ‘meet–look–talk–touch’ model, while new technology follows the new pattern of
  ‘view–read–write–talk–meet–touch’, which leaves the really important bit to almost the very end.
   Question: How can that work? Answer: It often doesn’t. We may find that, after crashing the internet with reciprocally enthusiastic emails for several weeks, when we finally get close to
  our online crush it’s loathing at first sight. Moreover, studies suggest that disappointment when face-to-face rises in direct proportion to how long we’vebeen in other sorts of
  contact before meeting. In other words, whether our expectations are met depends almost entirely on how long we’ve been stacking up those expectations. The key number here, according to a
  recent study at the University of South Florida, is twenty-three days of email; after that, a suitor would have to be a deity-come-to-earth in order to measure up face-to-face.
   It’s no coincidence that the site- and app-developers, having made their mark promoting a form of dating that was literally at a distance, are currently putting huge effort and budget into
  trying to reduce that distance and replicate the natural first step of crowded-room eye-catching. The current direction is not just for increased accessibility through profile pictures, audio and
  video, but for meet-ups, social evenings, dance classes and singles holidays, as well as apps that reveal which of those sitting in the same coffee bar are looking for love tonight. The litmus test
  will always be the ‘close enough to smell’ connection.

   Distance benefits
   That said, we’re wrong to be wholly wary of distance in a dating medium. For when it comes to thoughts and feelings, being apart can actually be more trustworthy and more
  revelatory. A study from Cornell University suggests we’re more likely to tell the truth in an email than in a voice conversation, because we know our words are literally down in black and
  white and can be checked. We’re also more likely to open up about significant thoughts and feelings online than face-to-face, because being less close to a prospective partner lowers the fear
  of rejection and leaves us more able to be authentic. The adrenalin rush that comes with the ping of ‘you’ve got mail’ stems not just from the potential of a new relationship but
  from the fact that the mail in question may contain deep emotional revelations – and the fact that we can respond in kind.
   So here’s how to drive distance dating to best effect. Benefit from the larger numbers to spot possible candidates, but rather than staying with ‘winks’ or ‘likes’,
  move to email as quickly as possible. Then, at that email level, without getting over-demanding, dive below surface chat; ask serious questions, give serious answers, open up and let partners do
  the same. The deeper revelations will help gauge the deeper compatibility; if it’s there, move on to phoning and meeting – the gold standard of real life.

   Proximity and chemistry
   For contact makes everything tangible, not only physically but also emotionally. It adds in all the wonderful elements which circumvent our logical brain– there’s a
  reason why Eros is shown with an arrow of love which pierces straight to the heart. It’s almost a cliché, that total fixation of gaze and suspension of logical thought. Think Maria and
  Tony inWest Side Story, stepping across the dance floor to touch each other. Think Marius and Cosette inLes Misérables, stopping in their tracks at the Luxembourg Gardens
  as their eyes meet for the first time.
   This isn’t, contrary to what we might think, only about desire. It’s also that simple proximity matters hugely and biases hugely. Once there’s a basic attraction, the more time
  we spend close to someone, the more they will seem appealing, lovable, simply better. And the longer, more frequently, more regularly we spend time with them, the deeper the impact. A 1930s study
  of 5,000 American couples showed that 45 per cent of them had got together when living within a few blocks of each other, which – while not as surprising in the 1930s as it would be nowadays
  – is still remarkable.
   A word here about‘chemistry’, a factor so prized and persuasive that an entire online dating site is named after it. We’ve surely all experienced the sort of heartfelt mutual
  liking which leaves us feeling good about ourselves as well as about the other person. But it’s difficult to pin down – and research hasn’t shown – what exactly chemistry
  is, let alone what causes it. Basic biological urge? Complex psychological fit? And should we factor it into our choice strategy? Without chemistry most of us would hesitate to take things further
  with a partner, and many commentators feel its absence is a deal-breaker; the founder of eHarmony, Neil Clark Warren, states uncompromisingly that unless you feel the urge to kiss a prospective
  partner by the third date ‘you’re probably never going to feel it’. But other dating experts join with many traditional cultures in judging chemistry as no predictor of
  partnership success; perhaps the only thing that chemistry guarantees is chemistry. If so, then maybe instead of demanding it as a prerequisite for a relationship, we ought to be seeing it as a
  distracting delusion.

    [Картинка: img_9] 
   West Side Story. Love at first sight with score by Leonard Bernstein, words by Stephen Sondheim and choreography by Jerome Robbins.

   Decision-making strategies
   Which is why– unromantic though it may seem – it’s good to add in some more measurable, more strategic, less instinctive criteria for judging. It’s a
  wise exercise, as first meeting evolves into regular contact, to ask yourself what evidence you use as you form your opinion. (It may help to consider here how you judge not only partners, but
  anyone close – friends, colleagues, even family.)
   Do you reach conclusions about a person because of . . .

   . . . how they look?
   . . . what they say?
   . . . what they actually do in practice as opposed to what they say?
   . . . what their general reputation is?
   . . . what the important people in your life think about them?
   . . . how you feel emotionally when you are with them?
   . . . how you feel emotionally when they are not there but you are thinking about them?
   . . . your sexual contact, if any?
   . . . what their friends and family are like?
   . . . how they interact with their friends, family, colleagues?
   . . . how they interact with your friends, family, colleagues?
   . . . their previous life in general?
   . . . their relationship track-record in particular?
   . . . what your gut reaction tells you?
   Try dividing the elements into those you would always check, and those you’d never bother with because they seem unlinked, irrelevant, impossible to judge. Next, put the
  list in chronological order, according to those checks you pay attention to first, those you usually leave for later, and those you never attend to. Are there any surprises there?
   Then think back. How has this decision-making strategy of yours actually played out? If less than perfectly, how could you improve? Perhaps you could prioritize the elements that until now
  you’ve left until later. Perhaps you could place less reliance on some kinds of evidence and more on others. Perhaps you need to extend, to use a wider range of checks and balances so your
  decision-making’s more effective.
   An interesting thought about initial moments: one of my early psychology tutors suggested that the first experience we have of a partner provides a snapshot of our entire future relationship,
  sets the scene, writes the script for later plot development. So, if in their initial meeting Mary finds herself listening to Tom hammer on about his ex, she could find that Tom’s past
  dominates their future relationship. If in their initial meeting Tom and Mary find themselves agreeing easily about where to go to eat, they’re likely to have a cooperative time ahead.
   So have there been any first meetings that, in hindsight, should have told you to turn and flee? Have there been any first meetings that, in hindsight, you should have taken as the starting
  point for something important? No regrets– the past is over – but maybe such meetings can be a touchstone as you go forward.

   Three elements
   If face-to-face compatibility’s confirmed and what we want is a simple liaison, we need demand very little more than passion and opportunity. If we are seeking something
  deeper, the criteria are more complex; below the intensity and the delight, there’s a need for a deeper compatibility. As Joanne Woodward apparently said of her five-decade marriage to Paul
  Newman, ‘Sexiness wears thin after a while and beauty fades. But to be married to a man who makes you laugh every day . . . that’s a real treat.’ So, can we get – can we
  give – that kind of treat, whether through laughter or otherwise, with our partner?
   If we can, we’re likely looking at connection across three elements: values, life goals and personality traits:

   •   Values: what makes our existence most worthwhile: safety, excitement, social recognition, happiness, self-respect, status.
   •   Life goals: the achievements we crave during a lifetime: career success, financial security, travel, adventure, marriage, children.
   •   Personality: a combination of character and temperament: honesty, mental acuity, kindness, generosity, bravery, commitment to hard
          work.
   There’s a numbers problem here. I’ve just enumerated a longish list of examples to cover all three elements, but I could have devoted an entire chapter (or indeed a
  whole book) to each. For, while a full tally of a partner’s hobbies is typically achievable on the fingers of one hand, the possible subcategories of these three deeper levels might number
  more than the hairs on one’s head. Far too many elements to keep count of, let alone keep in mind as a benchmark for partner choice. Better to explore these issues more broadly to reveal
  what’s really important.

   Three questions
   The next exercise lets you attempt this broader exploration. It has as its starting point a somewhat morbid topic, but it’s useful to help you reflect. Imagine you are on
  your deathbed. You are looking back on a good life. You’ve experienced what you were meant to experience, done what you were meant to do, are ending as you are meant to end. Now ask yourself
  these questions:

    [Картинка: img_10] 
   He wondered how long it would take his partner to join him at the summit, given that they’d set off in different directions to begin with.

   1. What three values made your life most worthwhile? (Think benefits such as safety, happiness, etc.)
   2. Which three goals have you achieved in your life that you are most satisfied with and proud of? (Think aims such as career success, adventure, etc.)
   3. What three personality traits do you most want other people to praise you for when you have gone? (Think descriptors such as honesty, generosity, etc.)
   Answer these three questions, get your nine answers, and you’ll have a top-line list of what is deeply important in your life and thus what needs to be deeply important
  to your partner in his or her life. If one of your key values is status, you’ll want a partner to rate that too. If your dream is to parent an entire football team of offspring, your ideal
  partner will be one who shares that goal – forgive the pun. If it matters to you to work hard, you’ll need a partner willing to pull all-nighters alongside you, or at the least give you
  a genuinely appreciative hug when you finally come to bed at 6 a.m.

   Proofs of love
   Nine words are a great start, a good snapshot. Problem is, almost always we’ll choose words that – while meaningful – are also abstract, indefinite, lacking
  detail. Example: almost everyone who does this exercise mentions the word ‘love’. But what particular flavour of love is that – and what if it’s not to a prospective
  partner’s taste? What if our idea of ‘love’ consists of huge amounts of free time apart, and theirs is 24/7 gazing into each other’s eyes? What if we agree with St Paul that
  ‘love is patient, love is kind’, while our partner is more of the Woody Allen school of thought that says ‘love is suffering’.
   Fanfares please for counsellor Gary Chapman’s bestselling bookThe Five Love Languages, which makes just this point. He suggests we each have our own vocabulary of ways we feel
  cared for, as does our beloved– but discrepancy between our respective visions creates relationship booby traps. Chapman’s list of five languages is as follows: words of affirmation,
  quality time, receiving gifts, acts of service, physical touch – though there are surely more one could creatively add to the list. And it’s pretty clear where the traps might lie. If
  our partner’s top love-language is gifts and ours is words of affirmation, then however many delightful presents they bring home, we’ll still feel unappreciated if they don’t say
  those three little words. If our top criterion is quality time spent together, while our partner defines love as acts of service, then however many romantic weekends we surprise them with, they
  won’t be satisfied if we don’t occasionally take the rubbish out.
   What are your proofs of love? Define them as concretely as you can. Then list just as concretely the‘proofs’ of all your deathbed answers. What do you mean by ‘safety’
  – is that financial, practical or emotional? What are you thinking of when you talk about ‘career success’ – promotion, work satisfaction or appreciation from your team?
  What do you have in mind when you talk of‘generosity’ – is that giving of your time, your money, your energy? Think through these deeper meanings so that, when the time’s
  right, you can explain them to a partner and teach them how to be good for you.

   Sameness
   It’s clear that we need a partner to accept, appreciate and approve of these elements of us. But do we need them to copy, to match exactly, to be a ‘bird of a
  feather’ that ‘flock[s] together’? Here we call on the insights of psychiatrist Hellmuth Kaiser, who in the 1940s, while watching identical twins ice-skate in perfect harmony,
  suddenly realized that the audience’s rapt fascination was due more to the synchronicity of the siblings than to their technical skill. We human beings like sameness. It makes us feel secure;
  babies even a few minutes old gurgle with glee when adults mirror their movements. It makes us feel validated; imitation is flattering, so strengthens our good feeling about ourselves.
   This good feeling’s reciprocal, a virtuous circle; if we worship a partner because we’re alike, they’ll probably worship us back. Which is why most dating systems, from online
  to matchmaking, pair clients based on likeness. And certainly when it comes to values and life goals, this approach is quite correct. Pair with someone who’s taking the same track in life and
  we’ll be content; if we’re on opposite tracks we’ll either move apart at speed, or play tug-of-war. Love, as Antoine de Saint-Exupéry famously wrote, consists ‘not in
  two people looking at each other, but two people looking outwards in the same direction’.
   With personality it’s slightly more complicated, the research is more contradictory and it’s possible opposites really do attract. Yes, same-personality partners may make good
  buddies. But there may not be enough spark for interest, let alone romance, not enough complementarity for day-to-day teamwork, let alone home-building, child-rearing and balancing all the spinning
  plates of a practical life together. As an example, inLittle Women, Louisa May Alcott’s novel about girls growing up in Civil War America, Jo March makes a fast friend of Laurie,
  the boy next door. Their bond is close and strong, but when Laurie falls in love with Jo, she is sensible enough to realize that their similarly masculine attitudes and hot-tempered personalities
  mean they could never make a good match. Instead, she moves to New York and there meets academic Friedrich Bhaer, whose tender character complements rather than copies her own; under his guidance
  she fulfils her potential, while Laurie ends up equally happily married to more feminine, less tempestuous Amy March. The lesson Alcott offers us – and one which relationship-advice books
  have repeated down the ages – is that we should choose a mate with similar values and goals, but with a different personality.
   That said, recent research from the University of Columbia suggests it’s more complex than that. Apparently a better answer is to ask a further question: What do individuals want? Those of
  us who feel good around similarity will thrive with a partner as like us as possible. Those of us energized around difference will thrive with a dissimilar mate. It’s not thedynamic itself
  – all variations can theoretically work – it’s our comfort level that dictates success.
   What about the‘men are from Mars, women are from Venus’ issue? We might wonder whether, if similarity is so very important, but X and Y chromosomes are so irreversibly unlike, all
  different-gender relationships are going to be fraught. Here’s the reassurance: men and women are actually very similar. Somepsychologists even suggest there are only two built-in gender
  differences – verbal skill and aggression – while anything else is down to nurture not nature and therefore adaptable. So if a relationship ends unhappily we shouldn’t blame the
  gender difference, or point accusingly at ‘men’ or ‘women’. And if a relationship seems well advised, we shouldn’t worry that it’s all doomed just because our
  beloved is of a particular gender. To put it another way: ‘Men are from earth, women are from earth. Deal with it.’ (The original of that quote is claimed by at least a dozen people,
  but it was far too apposite to omit from this book just because its author can’t be identified!)

   Disrobing
   Values, life goals, personality. Given honest conversation, we can probably guestimate these three elements in the first few meetings with a potential partner and– as we
  should – bail out if there are reasons for doubt . . .
   But real proof at this level takes a while, and it’s as important to talk as it is to listen. Revealing what matters to us, doing the things that fascinate us, exploring the past and
  planning the future together will over time remove more and more individual ‘veils’, and, along with that disrobing, our judgement of each other will become more and more accurate.
  Studies suggest that goals will become obvious first, values next, with personality revealed last of all. To slightly hasten the process, you might try raising the ‘deathbed questions’
  as a topic for mutual discussion; crassly posed, they may bring the conversation to a shuddering halt, but used at a stage where both partners are sufficiently at ease to go deeper, they’re
  exceedingly good for highlighting compatibilities.

    [Картинка: img_11] 
   ‘Commitment is an act, not a word.’ – Jean-Paul Sartre

   Embroidery
   Speaking of veils, is it wise to‘embroider’ them in the early going, perhaps omitting certain details and subtly altering others for effect? How should we present
  ourselves in order to attract a mate? Answer: don’t ‘present’, simply be. Of course it’s tempting to massage the headline figures – online, apparently women often
  lower their age and weight, while men increase their height and salary. And of course it’s courteous not to be so ‘open and honest’ that we spend the first few dates revealing
  intimate details of our most recent relationship-breakdown or the exact figures of our current financial crisis. But if we’re not at least factually truthful to begin with, and if we’re
  not emotionally truthful very soon after, we’re in grave danger of ending up with a partner who wants what we say we are, not what we actually are.
   Which is why I’m no fan of dating systems such asThe Rules, which advise a‘play hard-to-get’ approach to partner choice. I have to admit to feeling faintly nauseated
  by a book which, as early as line nineteen of its introduction, promises a way of acting around a guy so he becomes ‘obsessed with you and wants to commit’ – surely patronizing to
  both genders.But my objections are not only ideological but also pragmatic – any suitor, male or female, who is only enthralled by the thrill of the ‘hard-to-get’ chase will
  likely lose interest once the hunt is over. Although being authentic may feel scary, the more authentic we can be – about what we believe, what we want, who we are – the more chance
  we’ll have of eventually meeting a suitable prince or princess, even if that also means that en route we drive off a lot of incompatible frogs.
   What if, conversely, we wonder if a partner is being inauthentic? This isn’t so much about whether they are lying – if we suspect they are, we’re almost certainly right. But
  what if nerves are holding them back, or lack of self-confidence is making them hide true thoughts and feelings. Usually only time, trust and the opportunity for in-depth conversation will tell.
  But – though it isn’t under our control and shouldn’t be magicked up to order – an external drama or crisis will often make it clear, snapping us out of early courtship
  timidity, giving us a reason to step out and show who we really are, for bad or for good.
   I am remembering one client whose turning point for leaving a boyfriend was when she was involved in an accident and he suggested she call a cab to take her to A& E as he was‘too
  tired’ to drive her there. More hopefully for one’s faith in human nature, I’m remembering another client who suffered a burglary; her partner’s absolute support, practical
  action and complete understanding of how traumatized she was sent her rightly over the edge into commitment. It was sad about the burglary, but for the relationship, it was a result.

   Soothe then solve
   The two stories above, highlighting two very different responses to the emotional needs of a partner, bring us neatly to another kind of connection. And if you’re reading
  this book in the hope of a single ‘top tip’, here it comes. Without this element in a relationship, all the compatibility in the world won’t keep us afloat; with it, all the
  alarms, excursions, dramas and crises won’t sink us. Professor Sue Johnson, on whose work this section of the book is based, even hints that every other single factor involved in partner
  choice may be irrelevant. Get this right and you’re sorted.
   I’m talking about emotional responsiveness – a partner’s ability to pay loving attention to our emotional needs, and our ability to pay attention to theirs. Note the
  reciprocity. As well as needing to choose a partner who values our feelings, we need to choose a partner who motivates us to value theirs. However wonderful a suitor, if they don’t inspire us
  to respond, they’re the wrong choice.
   We all have emotional needs. Abraham Maslow’s famous hierarchy of needs – that triangle at whose base sit the human physical requirements for air, water, food, clothing, shelter and
  safety – has on its higher storeys the need for belonging, acceptance, security, respect, love. We generate much of this inside ourselves as we mature, but the meaning of John Donne’s
  cry that ‘no man is an island’ is that none of us can do the job alone. Knowing our partner will respond when we need them, knowing we’ll respond when they need us, is at the
  heart of the love bond.
   So what is this responsiveness? Here’s a definition which you may find useful:

   1. Being able to notice, pay attention to, reflect on, soothe and express our own emotions.
   2. Being able to notice, pay attention to, reflect on, soothe and respond to a partner’s emotions.
   3. Being able to reflect on and discuss the interaction between 1 and 2.
   4. Being able to do all the above even when a partner can’t, won’t or doesn’t want to.
   Notice what’s missing: any mention of solutions. Solutions may be vital, but a partner’s unlikely to even hear them, let alone do anything with them, until emotions
  are being honoured. So first soothe. Only then, solve.

   At home by the fire
   Let’s look at this another way, not as a list but a story. One of my favourite books is Thomas Hardy’sFar from the Madding Crowd– where headstrong
  Bathsheba Everdene turns down a proposal from good-hearted employee Gabriel Oak. Instead she marries dashing Sergeant Troy and, when he abandons her, accepts the courtship of reserved neighbour
  William Boldwood. Just to be clear, while there’s tragedy, there are no absolute villains in this story. In their own way, everyone does their best.
   But only one man– Oak – is worthy of Bathsheba. That’s not just because he supports her practically through his work on the farm, but also because he is the only one who can
  stand firm emotionally. Sergeant Troy’s passion seduces Bathsheba but his feelings are unreliable, while Boldwood is emotionally crippled. Only Oak is capable of empathic generosity; in
  Hardy’s words, ‘the [things] which affected Gabriel’s personal well-being were not the most absorbing and important in his eyes’. If you’ve read the novel,
  you’ll know the ending. If not, then take a clue from Gabriel’s proposal to Bathsheba – which at first she rejects as uninspiring, but later learns to treasure: ‘at home by
  the fire, whenever you look up there I shall be – and whenever I look up, there will be you.’

   Emotional engagement
   Which makes it all sound very simple. But this kind of maturity is a big ask. It means, as Gabriel Oak knows, being there for a partner over time and under all circumstances. It
  means staying calm even when sad, angry or anxious. It means staying engaged even when our partner is sad, angry or anxious and we are sorely tempted to tell them to get a grip. It means staying
  rock-solid even when our partner is firing negative emotions, with us as the target– as they will do from time to time in even in the most loving relationship. Easy? Not at all.
   So are we warranted in making emotional responsiveness a benchmark for partner choice? So long as we give back, surely it’s entirely reasonable to expect a potential partner to deliver
  emotional support, entirely justifiable to walk away if they can’t or won’t. Science is on my side in this. A landmark fourteen-year study by Professor Ted Huston of the University of
  Texas at Austin suggests that where partners aren’t emotionally concerned about each other during courtship, then even if they decide to wed they’ll probably part in the end. If couples
  are consistently kind, warm, sympathetic and empathic from the start, they’re hugely more likely to stay the course. We not only can, but should, make emotional responsiveness a relationship
  deal-breaker.

    [Картинка: img_12] 
   Adam realized at once that this relationship was going to be emotionally demanding.
   You may at this point be wondering about the widespread belief that such demands could never be made of those with the Y chromosome. So can men respond emotionally? The answer is absolutely yes.
  Any male wariness of emotion is not because men feel it less– physiologically they actually experience it more strongly, more painfully, hence the wariness. Men’s main handicap is
  conditioning; little boys are told not to cry, big boys are told to ‘be a man’, but what they’re rarely told is how to manage their emotions. But another study from the University
  of Texas suggests that when told empathy is attractive and that emotional responsiveness makes for good relationships, men are totally capable of stepping up. I know this first-hand. I have had as
  clients many men who fully take on board this particular relationship challenge, reachout to their partners and respond to their partners reaching out to them. These men are certainly brave
  – but they’re not unique. There are lots of them out there.

   Proofs of responsiveness
   Earlier in this chapter, we needed to get very specific about values, goals and personality– thinking through what our definitions were, deciding what ‘proof’
  there might be that we can deliver what a partner might need and vice versa. In the same way, it’s good to get specific about emotional responsiveness – what we mean by it, how we would
  know it if we saw it – or we again risk a relationship minefield where what one partner wants is not what the other can give.
   How to unearth your definition? One good way is to think of the last time you actively felt emotionally supported; what did people say and do (or not say and do) to bring you back into balance?
  As contrast, when did you last feel unsupported; what went on that left you disappointed and discouraged? What were the differences between those times that made such a difference in how you
  felt?
   Can we tell if a potential partner is capable of responding? It’s unwise to even try to judge this in the early going, when heavy-duty emotional interaction is rarely appropriate, let
  alone needed. That said, the following are excellent signs, their absence worrying: if a suitor listens with concentration when we are speaking, reveals emotional awareness when they are speaking,
  and – a sneaky one, this – shows empathy to those in the vicinity, even though these people are clearly not the object of courtship attention. One of my friends married a woman who on
  their first date behaved well to a waiter when he accidentally spilled soup in her lap. Another friend instantly dumped a beau who was rude to a nervous server. On both occasions my verdict was:
  good choice.
   Serious tests of this dimension will likely come when strong and uncomfortable emotions first bite– on occasions that might be as huge as a bereavement or as small as a hellish commute
  from work. A partner may be able to listen, comfort, sympathize and soothe – and we may accept that from them, or not. We may be able to listen, comfort, sympathize and soothe – and a
  partner may let usin, or not. We need to pay close attention, for it’s here that both sides will show their true colours. And it’s here we will find the answers to the two questions
  which Sue Johnson claims are most crucial to relationship success: ‘Can I be there for you? Can you be there for me?’

   Paul and Linda
   What if the answer to the first question– can I be there for you? – is actually ‘no’? If we don’t feel inspired to deliver emotionally to a
  partner, we need to ask ourselves why and then listen carefully to whatever reasons our minds and hearts give back. ‘Because I’m just not motivated enough with this person’ is
  extremely useful information, even though it probably signals an ending.
   The answer to the second question– can you be there for me? – may be unclear. We may sense a partner’s willingness but the way they respond to our ‘bids’ for care
  may not be quite what we need – a loss of attention, a turn away, an unresponsive comment. Is this just cause for dismissal? If all other signs are good it’s surely unfair to call a
  halt without giving a partner at least a chance to step up. So perhaps we ask, clearly and without criticism, for the response we need when we’re emotional? Listening or cuddling. Asking
  questions or staying silent. Looking on the bright side or joining in the pessimism. Giving time alone or being willing to stay for a while. While we’re on the subject, we might even turn the
  conversation to asking what response a partner might need from us when they are distressed. Just so we know.
   This depth of conversation may not be possible at once. And those few preceding paragraphs may seem more like advice on how to relate to a partner than advice on how to choose one. But a huge
  element of successful decision-making is finding out whether each partner is both able and motivated to actually learn what the other person needs and what the relationship may demand. If either of
  us can’t or won’t learn then, harsh as it may sound, there is no future. If we’re prepared to study, the future is shining bright.
   Apparently when Paul McCartney and his first wife, Linda, married, they made a private vow:‘I will never put you down’. To my mind, this didn’t only mean that they would never
  insult or disparage each other. It didn’t only mean that they would never betray or abandon each other. It meant that they would never stop being aware of each other’s feelings, never
  stop giving attention to each other’s needs, never fail to open up to each other, never fail to reply. Emotional responsiveness at its best.

   Four tendencies
   We come now to perhaps the most intricate of all issues by which we may assess relationship potential– how we relate, not just when one of us has an emotional need but
  when the connection between us threatens to fray.
   Because all of us will inevitably, at some point in our relationship, feel insecure, even unloved. Where we differ is what we do with that. At the heart of understanding what we need in a
  partner is understanding just how we differ, and how that plays out.
   For which insight, we thank psychologists John Bowlby and Mary Ainsworth and their work on child development (which, for easier consumption, I’ve here simplified). Bowlby began, in the mid
  years of the twentieth century, with a simple but innovative idea: that for humans, life is insecure. This starts early. We lose trust when we are propelled at birth into a world that is totally
  unlike the safe and comforting womb we just left. We lose more trust when, however devoted our carers, they’re sometimes too distracted, busy or stressed to give us the attention we need.
  Yes, we survive, and largely we survive well. But underneath it all we’re still mistrustful, fearing that we won’t be loved and if we are that love will disappear – when such
  insecurity hits, we fall back on our own individual coping mechanisms, ‘attachment’ tendencies, as Bowlby called them.
   Mary Ainsworth built on this theory with an in-depth study of seventy-six toddlers and their mothers, exploring more fully what these coping mechanisms might be. Mum and baby were shown into a
  room full of toys and with a research assistant on hand. Once toddler was happily playing, Mum left the room three times for three-minute intervals– during the last time the research
  assistant also left. Some little ones cried at first, then calmed, seeming ‘secure’ that Mum would come back. Some became ‘anxious’, and when Mum returned, clung on in case
  she went away again. Yet others protested by cutting off, ignoring Mum on her return, punishing her for her absence; Ainsworth called this ‘avoidant’ behaviour. Others got angry with
  Mum for leaving; I’m naming this tendency ‘attacking’. Four toddler reactions, four emotional strategies, four tendencies to behave a particular way when feeling insecure, unlovedand wary that love might never return.

   As adults . . .
   A few decades on from Bowlby and Ainsworth’s work and we see a growing realization that these tendencies don’t just fade as a child grows up. As adults, we’re
  certainly more secure because we’re more in control of our world, but we also repeatedly learn – often through the route of heartbreak – that we can’t always trust that
  world to deliver. And we still harbour those four attachment tendencies, sometimes majoring in one, mostly doing mix-and-match to differing degrees. When we are ‘secure’, trusting in
  ourselves and others, we handle love situations with calmness and confidence – even if in the end a relationship dies. When ‘anxious’ we are worried by love, unsure of our
  competence and needing reassurance. As ‘avoidant’, we fight shy of emotional engagement, pull away if commitment looms. ‘Attacking’, we feel an inner frustration, perhaps
  creating conflict in order to connect.
   If any of this sounds familiar, you’re right. We all have all these tendencies in different proportions. We may not manifest the more challenging ones except when we feel insecure or feel
  a relationship connection weakening – but they’re there in all of us. For that, no blame, no shame; attachment tendencies are the human condition.
   Which of course is why so many characters in literature and film display them (aside, of course, from the‘secure’ tendency, which is so mature and wise that it has zero dramatic
  potential). The other tendencies, however, provide endless raw material for compulsive characters and angst-driven plot. For ‘anxious’, see Bridget Jones’s romantic insecurity and
  her readiness to cling again andagain to Daniel Cleaver even when he behaves badly (though thankfully, in the end, she sees the light and walks away). As an example of ‘avoidant’, we
  might turn to the butler Stevens who, in Kazuo Ishiguro’s novelThe Remains of the Day, is so wary of the relationship that might develop if he showed his true feelings for
  housekeeper Miss Kenton that he fails to admit his love over a period of several decades. For‘attacking’, we need look no further than Heathcliff and Catherine in Emily
  Brontë’s novelWuthering Heights; while they think of themselves as one– ‘Whatever souls are made of, his and mine are the same’ – they are nevertheless
  endlessly intense with each other and Heathcliff in particular can often only express his love for Catherine through absolute rage.
   These tendencies have had an undeserved bad press. As is clear from the last paragraph, particularly when they’re presented in art rather than real life, they’re often seen as being
  all downside, fault and weakness. ‘Secure’ is, rightly, viewed as the poster child for happy and mature relationships. But the other tendencies have their upsides too. Being anxious may
  mean we’re motivated to ride out a partnership storm, stay loyal, stay committed. Being avoidant may mean a certain emotional independence, the ability to give partners space. An attacking
  tendency can mean being comfortable with dissension, or being able to summon huge intensity and passion.
   So, to what extent do you stay calm and serene, trusting in life and love to give you what you need? How far do you stay loyal– even though you also sometimes cling? How far do you
  maintain your emotional independence – albeit you may get accused of not caring? How far do you engage energetically – granted that you occasionally pick fights? How do you respond when
  you feel love sliding away from you? What, in short, are you going to bring to the partnership table when you feel less than fully connected?

   Partner tendencies
   And what will a partner bring to the table? Discovering that is never going to be as simple as gauging height and weight, values and life goals, or a capacity for emotional
  responsiveness. Crucially, attachment tendencies may not kick in at the start of a relationship because at that point we likely feel perfectly loved and perfectly secure. So how can we make at
  least a top-level guess on a beloved’s tendencies in time to make a reasoned decision?
   Here’s a useful diagnostic. Sex. Sex is one of the arenas where a person is most themselves, and reveals that self most early and openly in a relationship. It is Sue Johnson who here again
  offers guidance. She suggests that sex which involves a healthy balance between physical pleasure and emotional bonding might be called ‘synchrony sex’ and reflects a secure tendency.
  Sex used largely for comfort and as a way to calm doubts or conflicts, which Johnson terms ‘solace sex’, suggests a tendency to be anxious. Sex that is self-focussed,
  performance-oriented, with little emotional openness, could be labelled ‘sealed off’ sex; it signals avoidant tendencies. I would add that energetic, forceful, ‘fight it all
  out’ passion is what one might call ‘squabble sex’ and might reflect an attacking tendency.
   Again, these are tendencies, not types. All of us make love in all the above styles– with emotion, for reassurance, as self-gratification, to let out frustration – in fact my guess
  is that if you mixed all four together what you’d get would be sex labelled ‘normal’. But a noticeable preponderance of one type or the other can act as a Rorschach test,
  revealing who a potential partner is and what a potential partnership with them might be like.

   Tom and Jerry
   What do attachment tendencies suggest for partner choice? Similarity can work. When both of us are anxious or attacking we’ll understand each other and thrive on our
  mutual need for security or strong engagement. When we’re both avoidant – that is, if we ever manage to get together in the first place – we may feel constant gratitude for the
  reciprocal freedom.
   Dissimilarity can play well too. If we compensate for each other, some anxious dependency may strengthen the bond; a small amount of avoidant independence may stabilize interactions; a little
  attacking engagement may mean issues get put on the table and dealt with in healthy short order. (A good exercise, at this point, is not only to remember your own past relationships but also look
  at the ones you see around you, as acted out by friends, family or colleagues. Playing‘spot the attachment tendency’ is not only good practice for understanding partners-to-be but also
  good fun.)
   But do be wary of extremes. If we meet a partner who pushes for commitment on the first date, one who’s never had any relationships longer than a few weeks, or one who picks a fight within
  minutes of meeting, beware. We are facing respectively an off-the-scale anxious, off-the-scale avoidant and off-the-scale attacking personality. Unless we’re totally convinced we can handle
  it, we shouldn’t even try.
   The more subtle, and often less easily spottable, combination from hell is when partners of different tendencies date but can’t accommodate. Initial attraction may be strong –
  contrast makes for interest – and when we’re safely in love there may be no trigger for attachment wobbles. But fast forward a little: inject any kind of stress or insecurity and the
  dynamic will make both sides crazy. Anxious plus avoidant means one of us clings, the other pulls away. Avoidant plus attacking means one of us runs, the other pushes to engage. Attacking plus
  anxious means one fights, the other fears. The result can be a Tom and Jerry cartoon-type chase, with A emotionally pursuing B round the room of the relationship. If you’ve ten years of
  commitment behind you by the time this sort of thing creeps in, it’s absolutely worth taking time, energy and counselling to resolve it. But if it’s happening a mere ten days or weeks
  into a new relationship, run for your life.

   The ideal
   The ideal here– and it is an ideal – is that mostly we are secure with each other and that at least one of us is secure most of the time. Yes, there’ll be
  bouts of wobble – but in terms of choosing a partner, what to look for is someone largely honest and direct, who communicates clearly and is not into game-playing. Someone who is aware of
  emotion, not afraid of intimacy and is open to the possibility of commitment. In other words, human, but largely sorted.
   But there’s a problem. What I’ve just described can easily be experienced not as ideal but as boring. Remove the emotional roller-coaster tendencies of anxiety, avoidance and attack,
  and what’s left can feel all too calm. It’s easy to get confused and think that because someone isn’t any kind ofa problem, they are no kind of a partner. I have had clients who
  in the same breath as describing their relationship as ‘the most secure I’ve had’, express doubts that it is ‘the real thing’; clients who, while reporting
  contentment, worry that what they’re experiencing is too effortless to be true love.
   In fact, secure is good, contented is something to be glad about, and the occasional tempest is exhilarating but constant storms are exhausting. If in the past we have experienced a feeling of
  secure contentment with a partner but didn’t choose them, that was our loss. And if in the future we experience that kind of security in a relationship, then – assuming all other boxes
  are ticked – we should offer up heartfelt thanks and hang on for dear life.









   7. Being in Love














   Anthony Carthew:‘And [you are], I suppose, in love?’
   Lady Diana Spencer:‘Of course!’
   Charles, Prince of Wales:‘Whatever “in love” means.’
   (ITN INTERVIEW ON THE ENGAGEMENT OF CHARLES AND DIANA, 1981)
   I am a huge believer not only in the possibility but also the wisdom of falling in love. It’s a magical, sparkly feeling. The world seems bright and shiny, the future
  seems glorious, everything seems possible. Yes, being in love can sometimes be hard – as the classic French ballad has it, ‘the pleasure of love lasts a moment, the pain of love lasts a
  lifetime.’ But the excitement, the arousal and the adoration are surely irresistible. Everyone should be love-struck at least once in their life.
   Two examples. In Charles Dickens’s novel, the eponymous David Copperfield first meets Dora Spenlow when he visits her father’s house. ‘All was over . . . I was gone,
  headlong.’ There follows a delightful description of the ecstasy that comes with having ‘fulfilled my destiny . . . in an abyss of love.’
   And in case we think that fiction always exaggerates reality, let us also recall footballer David Beckham’s equal wonderment at first seeing Victoria on a Spice Girls video: ‘I
  thought “she is . . . perfection”.’ Their later face-to-face meeting, at a charity football match, happily led to David’s infatuation being fully returned and an almost
  instant relationship, engagement and marriage.

   Fixation
   But what does being‘in love’ have to do with effective relationship choice? In some ways, not a lot. In evolutionary terms, this rush of wonderful emotion was
  originally designed not to help us choose a compatible match, but to help us stand by a partner with whom we were making babies. Lust was there to get usrolling in the hay, being ‘in
  love’ was there to make us willing to push the pram alongside the one we’d originally sneaked off to the barn with. The ‘in love’ flurry of the hormones known as
  ‘monoamines’ exists to focus us on partnership through those early years when offspring need us to stay close, to the exclusion of all else. So much so that research at the University
  of Pisa has found key similarities between the monoamine levels of new partners and those who suffer obsessive–compulsive disorder. When we fall for someone we become literally fixated on
  them – asDavid Copperfield describes it, ‘a captive and a slave’.
   There’s a less evolutionary, more psychological and – in this age of family planning – less offspring-focussed set of reasons why ‘in love’ is so compelling.
  It’s that when we fall in love, we’re following an emotional dream of being the centre of the world. While very small, unless our childhood was damaged, those around us did their best
  to keep us absolutely safe, warm, cared for, loved. We leave that behind as we grow to adulthood, but we’ll always be looking for it again, always be wanting to recreate the security and the
  validation that was ours in the early years. ‘In love’ holds out the promise that our beloved will make us the centre of their world, and for ever. No wonder it’s an obsessive
  compulsion.
   We build on that compulsion. When in love, we’re likely to spend huge amounts of time together – proximity, you may remember, strengthens attraction. We stay close, connecting
  through sex but also through matched body language, emotional revelation and deep eye contact. The effectiveness of those last two elements was fascinatingly demonstrated by psychologist Arthur
  Aron, who got previously unintroduced subjects falling head over heels with each other simply by having them ask each other a series of thirty-six self-disclosure questions, then gazing into one
  another’s eyes for a mere four minutes. This approach was later used in an experiment to raise the ‘take-up factor’ for speed daters – and indeed those daters who asked more
  personal questions and gave more revealing answers got more picks from the evening.

   The wrong roller coaster?
   The problem is that thereafter we may get stuck. For though I hate to be the bearer of bad news, none of that wonderful falling-in-love experience is guaranteed to produce
  long-term compatibility. Literature is riddled with stories of how initial adoration translates badly into ordinary everyday life: Anna Karenina and Count Vronsky; Madame Bovary and Rodolphe
  Boulanger; even Romeo and Juliet, if we believe Shakespeare’s hints that had they actually set up house together in Mantua, the result would have been something of a car crash.

    [Картинка: img_13] 
   It’s best to choose a roller-coaster ride that brings you back down to earth both safely and without nausea.
   Giving more cause for concern– for literature does dramatize for the sake of a good yarn – there’s little scientific research showing a link between short-term attraction and
  long-term compatibility; Arthur Aron himself points out that while the closeness produced in his studies is similar to romantic passion, ‘it seems unlikely that the procedure produces . . .
  commitment.’ ‘In love’ might turn into a loss-leader for something deeper, but there’s no absolute correlation between the two.
   There is, however, correlation between‘in love’ and anxiety. Here’s another Arthur Aron experiment, this one involving eighty-five male subjects and a wobbly footbridge.
  Result: the men were significantly more likely to be charmed by a female researcher if they’d previously been scared out of their wits crossing the deep canyon at Capilano, Vancouver. (In
  case you’re suspecting gender bias here, the experiment was replicated some years later with women as subjects and male researchers; it produced the same outcome.) What both groups
  experienced was a dynamic that’s classic in the early stages of a relationship; our whole body is in a peak state of nervous tension, not only from wanting our beloved but also as a result of
  not knowing whether our beloved will want us. This arousal then provides the motivation to do exactly what we are genetically programmed to do, cling on to each other. Even the most delightful
  bonding involves some level of anxiety, and, in turn, anxiety often leads to bonding.
   You can probably see where I’m going with this. We can easily confuse the strong emotion of the ‘in love’ kind with the strong emotion of more unhappy kinds. We may even find
  ourselves likely to bond inany uncertain situation, with any uncertain partner– one who is emotionally unreliable (‘I’ll phone you’ syndrome), one who is
  seriously uninterested (‘s/he’s just not into you’ syndrome), one who is terminally unavailable (‘it’s complicated’ syndrome). In fact, when we keep choosing
  unsatisfying partners, that might be not despite the fact butbecause of the fact that they are unsatisfying. If you recognize yourself in this scenario, don’t self-blame;
  there’s a very small distinction between an emotional roller coaster that makes us squeal with delight and one that makes us shriek with horror, and most of us at some time choose the wrong
  ride.

   The earthquake of love
   There’s something else we need to remember about ‘in love’. It’s date-stamped. That original flurry of addicted monoamines will in the end give way to a
  lower-key flow of the ‘cuddle hormone’ oxytocin, designed to give us a more secure connection and get us not just pushing the pram but setting up house and home until the kids have
  grown and flown. There’s a natural switch from high arousal to low-key stability, from excitement to steadiness, from absolute adoration to loving respect: as Louis de Bernières writes
  in his novelCaptain Corelli’s Mandolin,‘a temporary madness . . . an earthquake . . . then it subsides.’
   Given this non-correlation between‘in love’ and compatibility, it’s therefore wise to avoid making choices from the earthquake zone, wise to wait until the earth has stopped
  moving before we pitch permanent camp. As de Bernières suggests, at that point there is a decision to be made about whether we are so compatible, so committed that even without ‘in
  love’ we want to stay together. This stage beyond ‘in love’ may not feel as intensely exciting, but it’s what makes a relationship stay the course. ‘Love
  itself,’ says de Bernières, ‘is what is left over, when being in love has burned away.’ If we want a partner for the long term, we need to discover what is ‘left
  over’.
   Here’s an exercise to help in the discovery. Pick three friends you’ve known for a while and are emotionally at ease with. Now think of what makes them your friends; think of what
  you get from them that has maintained your connection over time. Fix in your mind that feeling of being comfortable with them, relaxed in their company, authentically yourself, simply content. And
  there’s your point of reference, the touchstone to use when you fall in love. If you feel with a partner that same sense of comfort, relaxation, contentment – and if you sense that
  feeling could endure – then you are on safe ground.

   Good navigation
   Which unfortunately doesn’t mean that the ground will stay safe for ever. Yes, we’re always told that when we love we will not only live ‘happily’ but
  will do so ‘ever after’. We’re assured that, apart from when it’s absent, denied or ended, ‘love is a many-splendoured thing’, ‘love lifts us up where we
  belong’, ‘all you need is love’. And so we tend to set our compass for partner choice by the pole star of joy . . .
   Often, that’s good navigation. If we choose a partner who complements us, who completes our jigsaw and adds their skills and strengths to the ones we lack, we’ll live a more
  effective but also a more contented life. In Jane Austen’sPride and Prejudice, Elizabeth Bennet, having spent most of the novel thinking that Darcy is‘the last man on
  earth’ she would marry, realizes at last – and possibly too late – just how complementary they are and how happy their relationship could be. ‘It was a union that must have
  been to the advantage of both; by her ease and liveliness, his mind might have been softened, his manners improved; and from his judgement, information, and knowledge of the world, she must have
  received benefit of greater importance.’ (If you’ve never read the book, be reassured: they get together in the end.)
   Similarly, if we choose a partner who supports us, who by their attention and responsiveness heals our emotional wounds and makes us whole, we’ll live a more fulfilled but also a more
  joyful life. Here is another Elizabeth, this time Elizabeth Barrett, writing to fellow poet Robert Browning after he has expressed his love for her: ‘To receive such a proof of attachment
  from you not only overpowers every present evil, but seems tome a full and abundant amends for the merely personal sufferings of my whole life. [My tears] went away in the moisture of new, happy
  tears. Henceforward I am yours.’ (If you don’t know the history, they married; he then helped her to not only bear lifelong illness and a family estrangement, but also fulfil her
  promise as a writer.)

   People-growing
   But despite these examples, love doesn’t make us happy all the time and every time. Maybe an adorable partner has a less-than-lovable phase, an easy relationship starts to
  feel like hard work, a future that was glorious slowly becomes ordinary or even disagreeable. In Dickens’s novel, David Copperfield finds it hard to come to terms with Dora’s naivety
  and impracticality, while David Beckham’s marriage has reportedly not been without its ups and downs. Faced with dissatisfaction, it’s not surprising that we start to question our
  judgement. Does our unhappiness mean we chose the wrong partner? And what does it meanabout how we made our decision and whether we should renege?
   Here’s the thing. A relationship is what psychologist David Schnarch, in his bookPassionate Marriage, calls a‘people-growing process’. It invites us to flourish by
  learning to overcome not just the problems of everyday life, but the specific problems that our partner and our partnership present. It invites us to step up to the challenge of becoming more
  tolerant, more patient, more loving than we were before, in order to cope with the one we love. (If this seems unfair, be reassured. It cuts both ways; a partner has to step up in order to cope
  with us.)
   This challenge of people-growing is never going to be a constantly happy one. It can’t be. Poet David Whyte, in his workThe Three Marriages, offers the metaphor of buying two
  houses in order to join them together– but instead of being able to simply knock down the walls, we have to demolish both houses completely so we can rebuild, and ‘from the razed
  foundations of our former individual [selves] make a new home’. Schnarch picks up on this metaphor but with an extra emotional challenge: that in order to do this we must become more loving
  not only to our partner, but to ourselves as well. We must be strong, self-contained, ‘secure’, comfortable in our own skin – for we need to feel ‘at home’ in
  ourselves in order to have ‘a good place to invite a spouse to visit’.

   Standing in love
   Both Whyte and Schnarch say the same– that this process is universal, that it is a good thing, that we need to welcome it as a way of maturing and developing, that
  long-term it will lead to happiness because it will help us thrive. Similarly, Erich Fromm, whom we met earlier in this book, says that falling in love is inevitably followed by a period of needing
  to ‘stand’ in love, if our relationship is to survive. Happiness will not necessarily be what marks progress; sometimes there will be pain.
   A common response to all this is to swallow hard as one tries to come to terms with the shock revelation that even the most successful‘love, sweet love’ doesn’t always feel so
  sweet. But there often follows a sigh of relief that relationship problems don’t imply that the partners are wrong for each other or that they necessarily need to separate. For even if we
  make the most perfect partner-pick in the world, we will at some point meet challenges. We will always be required to master the essential human balancing act of trying to answer our own needs
  while meeting those of our beloved, of loving ourselves while loving another, and of growing through that process.
   So the key aim in finding the right partner should not be to try to avoid that balancing act– it’s inevitable – but to find someone for whose sake we’ll attempt the act
  because we love them so much, someone who loves us so much that they’ll make the attempt for our sake. The question for both sides becomes how to choose a partner who is so compelling that
  we’re willing to demolish our own house in order to rebuild a more beautiful mutual home.

   Diamond-polishing
   The good news is that we likely know how to choose correctly even when we’re not doing so deliberately. For humans are drawn towards those who help them grow; the message
  from Whyte, Schnarch and Fromm is that partner choice is the way we actively, though often unconsciously, choose to mature. Schnarch even likens it to the meeting of two flawless but rough diamonds  that rub away every part of themselves that doesn’t fit in order to stay joined together. The end result is not only a loving relationship, but two sparkling jewels.
   So, for example, we may be drawn to someone who needs something from us that we find it hugely difficult to deliver: attention even when they are angry, energy even when we are drained,
  emotional control in the face of difficult circumstances. Over time, because we care, we learn to step up and meet these challenges– and in this way develop a part of ourselves we would
  otherwise never have developed.
   Or, we may pair with someone who– once the rose-coloured glasses are off – manifests some vulnerability or fault that we dislike, or even deny, in ourselves. Because love means we
  are motivated to understand and accept that partner, we learn to accept and understand our own vulnerabilities – and so we thrive.
   More unexpectedly, perhaps– for more explanation of this, reread Chapter 3 – we may find someone whose personality reflects that of someone from our early past with whom we’ve
  had a complicated relationship. That reflection may make our current relationship complicated – but given that we are now older and more mature, we may learn to relate to our partner in a way
  we never could to the original. We may grow up sufficiently to create a happy ending this time round.
   Take some time to think back to past relationships with partners (or friends, or family) where things were challenging but left you changed for the better, even in small ways. You’ve
  almost certainly, in those relationships, chosen to be with people who helped you with the diamond-polishing. So what did those relationships give you? What benefits have you gained? And what can
  you learn that will help you begin – and maintain – your future partnership?

   The right order
   How can we tell whether a partner will help us mature in these ways and whether we can help them in return? There’s no formula, no guaranteed way of discovering if someone
  constitutes our growth opportunity – and as with attachment tendencies, real evidence may only be possible when the relationship’s well beyond the point of first choosing.
   But in the earlier going, certain signs are encouraging: feeling ourselves becoming more emotionally truthful, and seeing our partner becoming equally more authentic; feeling encouraged by them
  to reach our potential, and being able to encourage them to do the same; finding ourselves both learning and teaching, like Elizabeth Bennet; or finding ourselves emotionally healing and
  professionally achieving, like Elizabeth Barrett. In her novelBeloved, the author Toni Morrison describes this kind of personal development as if the person in question were a jumble of
  jigsaw pieces, taken up by a partner, rearranged and returned‘in all the right order’. If we have chosen well, both partners may find their ‘pieces’ falling into place.

   The sparkle
   The lesson of this chapter is not that we should choose a partner with whom things are tough from the very beginning– if that’s what’s going on, it’s
  not the right relationship. The lesson is that the best love is a three-part process, with the initial delights driving us on to ride out the medium-term challenges for the sake of long-term
  rewards. To complete the stories with which we began this chapter, David and Victoria Beckham are near to celebrating two decades together, while David Copperfield learned to accept his
  wife’s failings and so allowed his marriage to gain stability, even if it was cut short by Dora’s death.
   Enough, then, of any alarm bells. My original statement of belief in love still stands, and more. Because, firstly, whether or not a relationship lasts, being love-struck may be worth it just
  for the experience. And, secondly, if the relationship does last, love-struck is a wonderful place to start. The very fact we are so drawn to someone else– the lure of the obsession –
  is a huge motivator to stay loyal if things become challenging. The fact that we want so much from a partner means we’re driven to deliver in return. The fact that ‘falling in
  love’ means we bond, connect, open up, reveal and respond to each other emotionally creates the foundation for ‘standing in love’ further down the line. If what’s left after
  the earthquake subsides is a solid core of commitment, then we have the best of both worlds.
   So let’s embrace the romance, let’s enjoy the passion. In short, bring on the sparkle.









   8. Knowing














   Seven years would be insufficient to make some people acquainted with each other, and seven days are more than enough for others.
   (JANE AUSTEN,SENSE AND SENSIBILITY)
   The question we’re most likely to ask ourselves when we begin to date is ‘How will I know?’ What this really implies is two questions, ‘how’ and
  ‘when’: ‘How and when will I know enough to choose this person, or to not choose them, or to decide that the moment of choice is past?’ Let me say from the start that
  there’s no answer here, nor are there guarantees that one ever will know. All we can do is explore the possibilities.

   Instant reaction
   Possibility number one is that the answer to‘how will I know?’ is ‘sheer gut reaction’ and the answer to ‘when will I know?’ is
  ‘instantly’. Eyes meet across a crowded room and the deal is sealed; as examples, see two separate if very different American presidents. In his memoirs, Bill Clinton reports that when
  his wife Hillary first spoke to him, he was so overwhelmed that he forgot his own name. Lyndon B. Johnson apparently asked ‘Lady Bird’, as his wife was known, for a date within minutes
  of meeting, and proposed at the end of that first date; they were still happily wed when he died almost forty years later.
   Of course, an instant and instinctive decision about partner suitability is often a vote against– the elimination principle at work. Which is why, if all other boxes are ticked,
  it’s often wise to follow up even the most disastrous first meeting with a replay. That allows us to gather more, and more accurate, evidence – as well as reducing self-consciousness on
  both sides, allowing prospective partners to shine. This advice was passed on to me by a colleague who judged her blind date to be socially incompetent but gave him the benefit of a second hearing.
  She soon discovered he was simply overawed by her, a trait which soon transformed itself into socially competent adoration on both sides.
   Then there’s the opposite danger. Over-speedy decisions can lead to being totally swept off one’s feet by beauty and charm, only to realize that one’s given house-room to a
  monster. That said, as I’ve confessed, I’m no enemy of a little carefully managed infatuation. And the danger’s often resolved by the inevitable removal of rose-coloured glasses
  – inevitable because such instant passion is likely to implode at the first sniff of a problem; as Shakespeare put it, ‘These violent delights have violent ends / . . . like fire and
  powder / Which as they kiss, consume.’ But if instant enchantment makes us want to instantly commit in some comparatively irreversible way (mortgage, marriage, motherhood) then it’s
  best to apply the necessary brakes.

   Taking time
   Bill Clinton may have been so overwhelmed by Hillary that his brain stopped working, but the‘how’ of knowing is normally more thoughtful. And it’s usual to
  take longer than Lyndon Johnson’s few minutes to decide that we have found our life partner; radioactivity pioneer Marie Curie, for instance, turned down husband Pierre’s proposals a
  full seven times before she was convinced. Taking at least some time, space and consideration typically works best because it helps us to discover more about a partner, allows them to discover more
  about us. Where possible, dig deeper, search wider, allow both logic and emotion, head and heart to synchronize. As the Russian proverb runs, ‘Trust, but verify’.
   Which is why communities have traditionally built in delay: long engagements, no sex before marriage, betrothal for a year and a day before the wedding proper, all so we can verify the
  information and draw a considered conclusion. Our contemporary speedy courtship rituals– sleeping together without vows, moving in together without documentation – are only acceptable
  because we’re now not bound together for life if love turns to hate. Ironically, the most modern method, online dating, has reintroduced some of that traditional delay, with users going
  through a sometimes lengthy and in-depth process of ‘getting to know you’ while they continue to ‘get to know’ several others online until they commit.
   But it’s also best not to be too slow and too considered, for there are dangers in hesitation; we may lose not only momentum but also faith. Especially in the key transition stages –
  having sex, becoming monogamous, moving in – if the moment passes, so too may the belief that it was a good idea. If you’re worried about a timetable be reassured that, as the Jane
  Austen quotation at the beginning of this chapter shows, there is no ideal. That said, as very rough guidelines, two months of regular dating is long enough to know whether both sides want to
  declare themselves partners, two years long enough to know whether lifetime commitment is possible. Pass those breakpoints and it’s justifiable to question the length of the journey.

   How do you know?
   So take stock. What is your journey to knowing? Do you rush into connection, physical or emotional, with spontaneous eagerness, enthusiasm and a marked inability either to doubt
  or to tolerate delayed gratification? Or do you progress so slowly and serenely in affairs of the heart that onlookers– or even the objects of your affection themselves – believe
  you’re ambivalent? In other words, do you typically push for commitment because you’re so quickly convinced that you’ve found perfection, or delay it because you’re waiting
  for perfection to prove itself?
   There is an argument here for acting against usual tendencies. Previous speedy commitment may have led to some lack of judgement, previous tardy commitment may have meant losing love. And, as
  the old saying goes,‘If you always do what you’ve always done, you’ll get what you’ve always got.’ So if we normally rush in, then, without playing ‘treat
  ’em mean and keep ’em keen’, we could maybe try holding back on that first kiss, that first sexual encounter, that first meeting with parents, until we know precisely what
  we’re dealing with. Conversely, if we typically tend to hesitate, then, without playing ‘wear your heart on your sleeve’, we could maybe ‘lean in’ to suggesting that
  date, supplying that extra front-door key, declaring those intentions – even before it feels completely comfortable. Altering approach is, as always, a challenge. But perhaps if you do what
  you’ve never done, you might get what you’ve never before got.
   One of the nicest, as well as one of the most effective, ways to make a partnership decision– which involves taking time to explore but doesn’t drag things out – was suggested
  by my colleague Dr Charley Ferrer. Its approach is based not so much on information-gathering or timing as on attitude. For ninety days, Dr Ferrer advises, we should commit completely. We
  shouldn’t hold back for fear of being taken for granted, shouldn’t cling on for fear of being rejected. Instead, for a full three months, we should offer full engagement in giving and
  taking, full emotional responsiveness, full trust that the partnership will continue. In other words, we should behave as if wealready ‘know’ and have already chosen. If after that
  time we have no hesitations, then we know enough to say a completely wholehearted ‘yes’. If at the end of the ninety days we are still hesitating, we have gained more than enough
  knowledge to justify a ‘no’.

   Saying no
   In some cases that‘no’ is obvious. Deceit. Infidelity. Drug dependency. Abuse. Violence. All these bad behaviours are perfectly good reasons to flee, even after
  making an initial choice.
   There can also be good reason to flee when there’s no bad behaviour at all. There are numerous partner combinations that don’t augur well: deal-breakers in our preferences; differing
  values, goals, personalities; questions about one’s enjoyment of a partner’s company; a not-quite-good-enough sex life; an annoying level of conflict (even if it is generally bearable).
  As Ross from the TV comedyFriends commented when asked why he and lesbian Carol weren’t together: ‘This is not a mix-and-match situation’, and we shouldn’t attempt
  to make round holes accommodate square pegs. (We equally, of course, shouldn’t simply walk away in an attempt to force the pegs into the holes; break-up rarely works as a way to compel
  commitment in ourselves or others, and even if we reconcile, such abandonment will always strain the partnership, sometimes irreversibly.)
   Sometimes too, the answer is neither to go nor to stay but to try the third alternative. Change. If the benefits of partnership are obvious, we could– kindly, supportively, specifically
  – ask for the adjustments we want. Our partner might then answer – willingly, readily, enthusiastically – that they’re happy to oblige. Or vice versa. If that’s the
  conversation, there’s good reason to stay.
   The bad news is that, without that conversation, there’s every reason to go. Professor Ted Huston’s fourteen-year couple study, mentioned earlier in this book, found that when women
  in the courting phase of a relationship predict future problems, their predictions usually come true. So if we decide to stay with someone in the hope they’ll improve in time, we’re not
  really committing to the person they are now but to a future ideal that’s highly improbable. As Albert Einstein – who was something of a philosopher as well as a theoretical physicist
  – famously commented, ‘Men marry women with the hope they will never change. Women marry men with the hope they will change. Invariably they are both disappointed.’
   If having done due diligence we still feel a quiver of doubt, we could stay one more day to make absolutely sure. But if what we feel at the thought of staying is a flinch, a nausea, an
  exhaustion, that’s our unconscious screaming ‘go’. In which case, let me offer you an absolving ‘get out of jail free’ card. It is fine to turn someone down. In fact,
  it’s actually best to turn them down if you have come to the conclusion that they aren’t for you. Because by walking away you’re not just freeing yourself to find someone you can
  love. You are also freeing your no-longer-potential partner to find someone who can love them. Don’t feel guilty. If we know our heart is not in a relationship we do right by everyone if we
  leave.

   Not being chosen
   Sometimes, though, the situation’s more complex. Our heart is in, fully in. But our feelings aren’t returned – or perhaps worse, not returned right now but
  with a hint that they might be at some future time. Then things become hugely more difficult – though this is also a timeless theme in our history and culture. The poet Dante’s love for
  Beatrice. The Hunchback of Notre Dame’s longing for Esmerelda. Mark inLove Actually standing before his ideal (but already happily married) partner with a poster reading‘my
  wasted heart will always love you’. These tales touch us – and not only because we prefer a good ending to our love stories but also because they trigger a human terror that began when
  we were born: that we will not get everything we want in life.

    [Картинка: img_14] 
   Dante and Beatrice. Sometimes, there’s nothing more comfortable than focussing our choice on a prospect who, because we will never have them, will never
      disappoint us or be disappointed by us.
   However unfulfilled a relationship– Dante loved Beatrice for life, but only met her twice – not being chosen is a blow. If, or when, it happens to us, we shouldn’t
  underestimate the impact; studies have equated this loss to an actual physical attack, a trauma, a bereavement. Then we need to cling to the fact that – given some weeping and wailing, but
  also given time, human support and a sense of perspective – we will likely move through the suffering.
   But if we don’t move through rejection, we can land in deep trouble. For sometimes the label ‘non-available’ spurs us to even more commitment; surely if we can be different,
  woo more successfully, offer more resources, deliver more favours or simply try harder, we will get what we want.
   Here the cautionary tale from literature is the Great Gatsby, F. Scott Fitzgerald’s millionaire hero who invests everything he has in trying to rekindle the love of Daisy Buchanan’s
  ‘beautiful little fool’. He takes a luxurious mansion directly across the bay from her marital home, spends endless nights staring over at the green light at the end of her dock, throws
  hugely extravagant parties to tempt her to come to him.
   It’s clear from the start that there will be no happy ending here; Daisy’s self-absorption makes it almost inevitable that, while she does restart her affair with Gatsby, she will in
  the end abandon him. But Gatsby himself creates his own tragedy by sacrificing all to win the love of someone who cannot truly love him, squandering his fortune in relentless decadence, abandoning
  his values and in the end losing his life to protect Daisy. The whole story is shot through with the pointlessness of clinging on in hope.
   If our love story ever approaches that of Gatsby, the answer is not to twist our hearts and our souls out of shape as he did, but conversely to be even more authentic than usual. If after a
  while we are still not loved, then however much we mourn, it’s been a lucky escape. In the same way as it’s best to free up a partner we don’t want, it is also best to be freed
  from a partner who doesn’t want us. We deserve more than that.

   Being chosen
   What if, instead, we are adored without adoring in return? If our immediate reaction to being picked is obvious repulsion, that’s fairly straightforward; there likely
  follows a few embarrassing conversations, a little self-reproach and the occasional need to repel the boarder in question.
   More difficult is when our reaction is not repulsion but temptation. For being the object of desire can be highly seductive. If we suffer the normal human tendency to self-negation, it may feel
  very good indeed when someone else puts us at the centre of their universe, giving us a control over them that’s even more seductive because we aren’t in any danger of ceding any
  control to them. (Plus, if we are feeling pessimistic because previous partner choices have misfired, such a person may be even more attractive because we believe they are our only remaining
  option.)
   Given all this, being pursued can make us blind to danger signals. We may ignore huge signs of incompatibility, consign huge doubts to the file marked‘ignore’. And, particularly if
  our would-be partner stays the course, we may stay with them despite misgivings; there is something deeply romantic about Being Won Despite All Challenges. ‘She wanted me even though she was
  married. . .’; ‘I wasn’t interested but he was so keen. . .’; ‘I was convinced by her conviction that I was the one for her . . .’ It was Wallis Simpson who
  – feeling bound to marry the abdicated Edward VIII long after she had tired of him – commented: ‘You have no idea how hard it is to live out a great romance.’

   Balance, imbalance
   Again, pause and take stock. Do you recognize in yourself a habit of staying in a relationship well beyond the point you should be leaving? Of leaving when you should be giving
  it another chance? Are you consistently drawn to those who don’t pick you? To those who are married – whether to spouse or to job? To those who care, but only at certain times, only in
  certain situations and only when you offer attention, support or no-strings sex?
   Or do you find yourself in relationships with partners who do choose you but who you know, heart of hearts, will make you deeply unhappy? Do you find yourself persuaded by intensity (or by
  flattery, or by genuine if one-sided love), to the point of ignoring your own doubts and ending in uneasy partnership? In all these situations, it may be time to change.
   All that said, don’t panic if there’s some imbalance in a relationship, particularly at the start. Every relationship suffers disequilibrium. Even for just a few moments, one person
  wonders while the other is certain; one person doubts while the other has faith. So long as the dynamic eventually settles into an equal match, that’s fine. More, if what we experience at the
  start of a promising relationship is a certain deliberation on either side, this may well be good news. The resulting choice, if it comes, is likely to be more considered – and therefore more
  dependable.

   Choosing
   The first chapter of this book painted partner choice as a journey– and the promise that description offers is that there is a conclusion to the trip. It’s a
  promise that will almost certainly come true. We may have encountered detours or cul-de-sacs along the way, but the vast majority of us will reach our destination. We will let go of alternative
  possibilities and begin to focus more and more surely on one. We will come to a point where we believe that we can love, and that we can be loved in return.
   And there we are, decision made. We echo the moving words of poet Edwin Muir:‘yours, my love, is the right human face’. We know. We have committed. We are set for the happiest of
  endings.
   Except, except . . . of course this isn’t the end. Commitment is only the beginning, the first choice. There will be other decisions to come and it’s wise to remember they are out
  there waiting for us.
   Moving in together. Getting engaged. Marrying. Having children. Raising those children and then staying together to the end of life. The thing about these later transitions is that by the time
  we make them, we’re in a different place from before. As Somerset Maugham pointed out, we are not the same as we were even a year ago, and ‘nor are those we love’.
   Through the course of our relationship, we will likely several times come slap up against what can only be described as the Wall of Life– trials of illness, accident, job change, ageing,
  bereavement. Through these, and with the passing of time, we will learn more about our partner and they will learn more about us. And this may shift the goalposts. Soberingly, the second half of
  the Somerset Maugham quotation reminds us that it is only good fortune if ‘we, changing, continue to love a changed person’.
   Whether or not we have such good fortune, much of what this book suggests is always relevant. In the context not of a hoped-for or recent connection but an existing and lengthy commitment, it is
  still useful to specify what we want from our partnership; to reassess the fit with our partner’s values, goals and personality; to face fully whether we can still emotionally respond to each
  other. And sometimes that raises questions. If our partner promised us a rose garden but over the years has delivered only armfuls of brutally stinging nettles, it’s understandable if we dump
  the greenery in the waste bin and head for the door.
   Nettles aside, the most important factor in making future partnership decisions– just as for the initial choice to partner with that person – is not whether we are currently
  ecstatic but whether we are currently growing, whether we trust that we will grow in the future, and whether we believe our partner is growing too. If we are in a relationship that pushes us to
  mature, we may not be 100 per cent joyful, 24/7 – ask any caterpillar in the process of becoming a butterfly. Yet if we are still evolving, that will make it worthwhile to keep loyal.
   Let me end with a tribute to continuing loyalty. In his novelLove in the Time of Cholera, Gabriel García Márquez describes the experience of the multitude of ordinary
  couples who stay the course even though it proves hard. He pays tribute to the immense courage and willingness of those who have chosen again, beyond the first romantic decision, who have overcome
  the challenges of ‘daily incomprehension’, ‘instantaneous hatred’ and ‘reciprocal nastiness’ that characterize most relationships, and he celebrates that it is
  fully possible to come through and to triumph, to reach the point where partners ‘love each other best’.
   That’s the hope. That if both of us keep evolving, keep learning, keep growing, then at some point in the future, we will be able to create a wonderful partnership, to relate to each other
  as never before, to love each other ‘best’. And then we will know for absolute certain that we have made the right choice.









   Bibliography
   Books

   Louisa May Alcott,Little Women, Vintage Children’s Classics, 2012 edn
   Jane Austen,Pride and Prejudice, Wordsworth Classics, 1992 edn
   ——,Sense and Sensibility, Wordsworth Classics, 1992 edn
   Louis de Bernières,Captain Corelli’s Mandolin, Vintage, 1998
   Emily Brontë,Wuthering Heights, Wordsworth Classics, 1992 edn
   Brené Brown,Daring Greatly, Avery Publishing Group, 2015
   Gary Chapman,The Five Love Languages, Moody Press, 2015
   Stephanie Coontz,Marriage, a History: How Love Conquered Marriage, Penguin USA, 2006
   Helen Fielding,Bridget Jones’s Diary, Picador, 2001
   F. Scott Fitzgerald,The Great Gatsby, Wordsworth Classics, 1992 edn
   Gustave Flaubert,Madame Bovary, Wordsworth Classics, 1993 edn
   Erich Fromm,The Art of Loving, Thorsons, 2010
   Elizabeth Gilbert,Eat, Pray, Love, Bloomsbury, 2007
   Dr Sue Johnson,Hold Me Tight, Piatkus, 2011
   ——,Love Sense, Little, Brown, 2013
   Daniel Kahneman,Thinking Fast and Slow, Penguin, 2012
   Claire Langhamer,The English in Love: The Intimate Story of an Emotional Revolution, OUP, 2013
   Gabriel García Márquez,Love in the Time of Cholera, Vintage, 2007
   Simon May,Love: A History, Yale University Press, 2012
   Chris McKinlay,Optimal Cupid: Mastering the Hidden Logic of OkCupid, CreateSpace, 2014
   Toni Morrison,Beloved, Vintage Classics, 2007 edn
   David Schnarch,Passionate Marriage: Keeping Love and Intimacy Alive in Committed Relationships, W. W. Norton, 2009
   William Shakespeare,Romeo and Juliet, Wordsworth Classics, 2000 edn
   Leo Tolstoy,Anna Karenina, Wordsworth Classics, 1995 edn
   Amy Webb,Data, a Love Story, Plume, 2014
   David Whyte,The Three Marriages: Reimagining Work, Self and Relationship, Riverhead Books, 2010
   Jeanette Winterson,Written on the Body, Vintage, 1993

   Websites and other resources
   www.notimeforlove.com

   Eli J. Finkel et al.,‘Online Dating: A Critical Analysis From the Perspective of Psychological Science’, available at www.psychologicalscience.org
   www.quantifiedbreakup.tumblr.com
   The School of Life, 100 Questions: Love Edition (100 question cards with box– a toolkit for relationships)
   The School of Life offers coaching and therapy for relationship enhancement: www.theschooloflife.com/london/shop/therapy/life-coaching
   In Britain you can also find counsellors through the College of Sexual and Relationship Therapists: www.cosrt.org.uk, the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy:
  www.itsgoodtotalk.org.uk and Relate: www.relate.org.uk.









   Acknowledgements
   My thanks go to everyone who has made this book possible, especially my agent Barbara Levy and all the staff at the School of Life and at Pan Macmillan, especially Morgwn Rimel,
  Cindy Chan, Robin Harvie, Zennor Compton, Laura Carr, Marcia Mihotich and Jonathan Baker, all of whom have been endlessly helpful. Above all, my thanks go to Caroline Brimmer, who originally
  invited me to help her develop the‘How to Choose a Partner’ course at the School of Life, and whose talent, insight and support have been an inspiration; without Caroline, this book
  would not have happened.









   Picture Acknowledgements
   The author and publisher would like to thank the following for permission to reproduce the images used in this book:

   pagelinkThe Arnolfini Portrait© Thaliastock / Mary Evans
   pagelinkSir Galahad– the Quest of the Holy Grail, 1870 (oil on canvas), Hughes, Arthur (1832–1915) © Walker Art Gallery, National Museums
      Liverpool / Bridgeman Images
   pagelink Traffic Sign With Heart Shape© Richard Newstead / Getty Images
   pagelink Human Heart Map© Kate Hiscock / Getty Images
   pagelink Come Through© Everett Collection / REX Shutterstock
   pagelink Watching the Roulette Wheel, Hollywood, California, 1930 (b/w photo)©Underwood Archives / UIG / Bridgeman Images
   pagelink Scene at Reelfoot Lake© Andreas Feininger / Getty Images
   pagelink Jam and Marmalade aisle, Woolworths store, 1956 (b/w photo), English Photographer, (20th century)© Private Collection / Bridgeman Images
   pagelinkWest Side Story Photo© Michael Ochs Archive / Getty Images
   pagelink A Man Hiking© Lambert / Getty Images
   pagelink Kissing Couple 1968©Mary Evans Picture Library / Shirley Baker
   pagelinkThe Creation of Adam© Massimo Pizzotti / Getty Images
   pagelink Corkscrew© Keystone France / Getty Images
   pagelinkDante and Beatrice, 1883 (oil on canvas), Holiday, Henry (1839–1927) © Walker Art Gallery, National Museums Liverpool / Bridgeman
      Images









   TOOLS FOR THINKING
    [Картинка: img_15] 
   A RANGE OF THOUGHTFUL STATIONERY, GAMES& GIFTS FROM THE SCHOOL OF LIFE
    
    
    [Картинка: img_16] 
    
    
   Good thinking requires good tools. To complement our classes, books and therapies, THE SCHOOL OF LIFE now offers a range of stationery, games and gifts that are both highly
  useful and stimulating for the eye and mind.
   THESCHOOLOFLIFE.COM
    [Картинка: img_17] 













   If you enjoyed this book, we’d encourage you to check out other titles in the series:

   HOW TO MAKE A HOME

   EDWARD HOLLIS

   HOW TO LIVE IN THE CITY

   HUGO MACDONALD

   HOW TO CHOOSE A PARTNER

   SUSAN QUILLIAM

   HOW TO THINK LIKE AN ENTREPRENEUR

   PHILIP DELVES BROUGHTON

   HOW TO BE A LEADER

   MARTIN BJERGEGAARD& COSMINA POPA

   HOW TO BE BORED

   EVA HOFFMAN

   Also Available:

   HOW TO DEAL WITH ADVERSITY

   CHRISTOPHER HAMILTON

   HOW TO AGE

   ANNE KARPF

   HOW TO DEVELOP EMOTIONAL HEALTH

   OLIVER JAMES

   HOW TO CONNECT WITH NATURE

   TRISTAN GOOLEY

   HOW TO THINK ABOUT EXERCISE

   DAMON YOUNG

   HOW TO BE ALONE

   SARA MAITLAND

   HOW TO FIND FULFILLING WORK

   ROMAN KRZNARIC

   HOW TO STAY SANE

   PHILIPPA PERRY

   HOW TO WORRY LESS ABOUT MONEY

   JOHN ARMSTRONG

   HOW TO THINK MORE ABOUT SEX

   ALAIN DE BOTTON

   HOW TO THRIVE IN THE DIGITAL AGE

   TOM CHATFIELD

   HOW TO CHANGE THE WORLD

   JOHN-PAUL FLINTOFF

   If you’d like to explore more good ideas from everyday life, THE SCHOOL OF LIFE runs a regular programme of classes, workshops, and special events in London and other
  cities around the world.
   THESCHOOLOFLIFE.COM













   SUSAN QUILLIAM is a relationship psychologist, coach, advice columnist and Faculty member of the School of Life. She is the
  author of twenty-two books published in thirty-three countries and twenty-four languages. She is a regular media expert on the subject of sex and relationships.

   THE SCHOOL OF LIFE is dedicated to exploring life’s big questions:How do we find fulfilling
  work? Can we ever understand our past? Why are relationships so hard to master? If we could change the world, should we? Based in London, with campuses around the globe, The School of Life
  offers classes, therapies, books and other tools to help you create a more satisfying life. We don’t have all the answers but we will direct you towards a variety of ideas from the humanities
  – from philosophy to literature, psychology to the visual arts – guaranteed to stimulate, provoke, nourish and console.













    [Картинка: img_18] 
   www.theschooloflife.com













   By the same author:
   The New Joy of Sex (co-written with Dr Alex Comfort)
   Stop Arguing, Start Talking
   The Relate Guide to Staying Together

    [Картинка: img_19] 
   First published 2016 by Macmillan
   This electronic edition published 2016 by Macmillan

   
  an imprint of Pan Macmillan

   
  20 New Wharf Road, London N1 9RR

   
  Associated companies throughout the world

   www.panmacmillan.com
   ISBN 978-1-4472-9330-9
   Copyright© The School of Life 2016
   The right of Susan Quilliam to be identified as the author of this work has been asserted by her in accordance with the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988.
   The picture acknowledgements here constitute an extension of this copyright page.
   Pan Macmillan does not have any control over, or any responsibility for, any author or third party websites referred to in or on this book.
   You may not copy, store, distribute, transmit, reproduce or otherwise make available this publication (or any part of it) in any form, or by any means (electronic, digital,
  optical, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise), without the prior written permission of the publisher. Any person who does any unauthorized act in relation to this publication may be
  liable to criminal prosecution and civil claims for damages.
   A CIP catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library.
   Visitwww.panmacmillan.com to read more about all our books and to buy them. You will also find
  features, author interviews and news of any author events, and you can sign up for e-newsletters so that you’re always first to hear about our new releases.

Взято из Флибусты, http://flibusta.net/b/684935
