
   Little Horse
   “What’s he like, this—this brother of yours? Brother Wolf?”
   Little Horse could hear the hesitation as Clove Scented Smoke on Wind fumbled with the concepts. Little Horse scanned the sky from the vantage point of the bridge pier; still no sign of a gossamer approaching from the west.
   “Blade brother,” Little Horse corrected Clove. The apothecary had been sole survivor of a landslide that had reduced his household’s estate to rumble. Since the holding had been one of the clan leader’s farthest-flung households, Clove had little dealings with the holy caste ofsekasha and thus wasn’t familiar with the strict mindsets. Nor did he understand the relationships between the clan leader and his bodyguards.
   “But you should not refer to him that way, nor should you call him Brother Wolf.” Little Horse leapt down off the tall stone pier to land lightly beside Clove. “Always call him ‘Wolf Who Rules.’ There are others—like my father—who would be quite upset if you infer that he is my brother of flesh and blood.”
   “I don’t understand how…” Clove sighed as he touched his face and discovered his spectacles were still perched on his nose. Most conversations with Clove were constantly interrupted as he fumbled with the two small disks of glass joined with a slender piece of wire. Despite Clove’s need for them to see anything clearly, the glasses were prone to falling off. “I wish they would just do the spell on my eyes and be done with it.”
   But the healers wouldn’t. Most of the spells that dealt with vision had been developed before the rebellion for the sole purpose of solving the albino emperor’s weak eyesight. The spellwork had been ruthlessly tested on thousands of helpless slaves, most of whom were blinded and then destroyed. After the Rebellion, all such spells carried a death sentence for anyone that dared to cast them. Only in the last thousand years had the ban been lifted—mostly from the efforts of Little Horse’s grandfather—but no one dared to attempt them. The healers were afraid of people like Little Horse’s father.
   It left Little Horse nothing to say in reply.
   Clove gave a slight laugh as he tucked away his spectacles.“Ah, with my luck, I probably would grow a third eye, right in the middle of my forehead, and start seeing imaginary creatures.”
   The apothecary’s sense of humor was one of the reasons Little Horse liked the male. Clove was also the closest person to his age, although at a hundred and forty, he was twice Little Horse’s years.
   The bridge had crossed them over to the Stone Quarters. They stopped at a cart selling cold sweet pickled cucumbers on a stick. Mistaking Little Horse for a child of her own clan, the vendor glared at Clove, who was clearly Wind Clan.
   “Cause any trouble and I’ll call for the Wyverns,” she warned.
   Clove glanced behind him, put his hand to face to push up the spectacles that were now safe in his pocket, and turned back to blink at her with confusion.“Pardon?”
   “I amsekasha.” Little Horse had learned that it was useless to explain he was actually Wind Clan. His hair and eyes were Stone Clan brown, seemingly giving lie to his words. No one ever questioned his claim to his caste. Apparently no one would dare lie about that.
   Clove blinked at him, clearly not following the conversation.
   The pickle seller’s eyes went wide and she carefully handed over the correct change.
   The exchange proved that Little Horse been right to tag along with the apothecary to the spice market. Clove was from a small hold, the isolation making him often seem younger than Little Horse, and half-blind without his spectacles. Clove could get into serious trouble by himself while Little Horse had the protection of his caste.
   The cucumber was crisp, sweet and cold. After the first bite, though, Little Horse focused on the crowd moving around them. Excitement shimmered inside him. This was what he spent his entire life training for: to protect a clan member against attack. He realized that he should have his hands free. He finished the cucumber in three large bites and tucked the wooden skewer away.
   There was so much to keep in mind. Where was Clove? Was anyone looking their direction for more than a moment’s glance? Any change of body language that warned of attack? What was the nearest point of escape?
   The crowd was loud jostling confusion. Over the roar of conversation was the barking of the vendors, hawking their wares. The smell of the multitude of spices was overwhelming; every stall flooded thick scent into the market square. Cinnamon. Ginger. Nutmeg. Cumin.
   He was having trouble remembering everything he was supposed to be doing and still walk without stumbling. His parents made it look so effortless. He knew he shouldn’t be daunted; they had a thousand years of practice to his handful of decades. Without the protective spells tattooed on his arms, the wyvern scale armor, and the distinctive magically sharpejae that his caste alone could carry, no one recognized him assekasha and stepped out of his way like they would for his parents. Nor did it help that he still hadn’t hit his growth spurt and was still a head shorter than most of the adults about them.
   Clove made him jump by tapping him on the shoulder.“Little Horse, I never did finish my question.”
   “What question?”
   “How is Wolf Who Rules your brother if not through blood? Did your mother nurse him?”
   “No!” Pony laughed. “Because of his name, it was decided that he be trained as a warrior. My mother was the one entrusted to teach him how to fight. She taught him how to tumble shortly after he could walk and almost everything I was taught as asekasha.Domi taught him all that he would need at Court and how to protect his Beholden, but my mother taught him everything of the blade.”
   “Because of his name?”
   “Wolf is a warrior’s name. It means he will see great battles. It’s why the Fire Clan asked that he be raised at Court, close to his cousins.” Little Horse realized he was saying too much. “Everyone expects great things of him.”
   The same could be said of Little Horse. Stormhorse was the mythical beast that the goddess of war rode. Because of his name, given by Pure Radiance herself, everyone expected great things of him.
   “What is he like? Wolf Who Rules?”
   “He’s—he’s—” Little Horse stopped the first thing that wanted to spill out of his mouth. Wolf had always acted as Little Horse’s older brother, making time to play even as he tried to live up to his name. “Fun” was true but not the thing to say to this near-stranger. “Playful”made Wolf sound like a dog. “Great” seemed to be lacking another word like “brother” or “friend.” “Awesome” bordered on overblown.
   Little Horse took a deep breath and committed to something.“He’s a good leader.” That seemed too faint of praise. “He protects his people and always makes sure they’re well taken care of.”
   “Ah.” Clove seemed satisfied with the description.* * *
   Little Horse sensed a change in the crowd before he saw the source of the disturbance. He noticed that the market quieted with a spreading wave of silence coming from the east. His hand went automatically to his hip before he remembered he was virtually unarmed. His parents allowed him to wear a practice sword within the Wind Clan palace. It wasn’t the magically sharpejae; it was only meant to accustom him to the weight and length of anejae riding on his hip. He’d left the practice sword at home, bringing only daggers to deal with anyone outside his caste that started trouble.
   Goosebumps rose on his arms as he caught sight of black chest armor: a Stone Clansekasha. The male swaggered through the thick crowd, clearly not bothering to check his stride for the conditions. It bespoke of boorish arrogance. Most of the people within the square were Stone Clan. They still scattered before the holy warrior like frightened chickens.
   Knives would be useless against asekasha.
   He’d been taught that his caste was perfection in birth. It was their training that gave them the right to be considered holy. Only by blood and by sword did they earn their right to stand outside the law and to judge all those who crossed their path. As the son of Wind Clan’s First, though, he also knew that not all of his caste were as perfect as others. He was flawed by inexperience. Older warriors had become too rigid in mindset based on their experiences. Others allowed the desire to excel to become justification for base ambition.
   Some thought that perfection meant they could do no wrong.
   A wise warrior did not engage an opponent that he could not defeat. The best way to protect Clove was to retreat.
   Little Horse started to turn, intending to pull Clove to a nearby alleyway. The apothecary wasn’t behind him. He’d been so focused on thesekasha that he lost track of the male. Little Horse frantically scanned the crowd, jumping to see over the taller adults, trying to spot Clove.
   The young apothecary was easy to spot; he was the only one not scuttling out of the path of the oncomingsekasha. While the Stone Clan merchants and clan members carefully kept their gaze averted as they hurried in any direction but toward the holy warrior, Clove stood still, brow creased as he squinted at the dissipating crowd.
   “Little Horse?” Clove called, his voice loud against the sudden hush.
   With a snarl of anger, thesekasha unsheathed hisejae and stalked toward Clove.“Arrogant Wind Clan mudsucker!”
   Little Horse clenched down on a shout of warning. Surprise would be his only advantage. He lunged through the now-running crowd. It felt like he was swimming upstream. Thesekasha theatrically flourished his sword, swinging it high for a beheading stroke. Blind to the danger, Clove raised his hand to his face to fumble for his missing glasses.
   Little Horse slammed into thesekasha, caught hold of the warrior’s dominant hand and used his momentum to slash the blade down faster than thesekasha planned. The magically sharp edge missed Clove by a hair. The point sliced through the cobblestone, burying the tip inches into the granite. Keeping hold of the warrior’s wrist, Little Horse swept his legs out from under him. They went down hard.
   He nearly let go in surprise. He hadn’t expected it to work. It wouldn’t have worked on his mother.
   The warrior let go of theejae as he fell, leaving it upright in the stone. He used his height and weight to take control of their roll and pin Little Horse to the ground.“Going to gut you, little runt! You don’t raise your hand to the holy!”
   “You don’t kill the innocent!” Little Horse wrenched hard and flipped them. “By the blood, I have the right to stop you!”
   “Insolent hairless cur!” He tried to break Little Horse’s hold and failed. “Catamite! Whoreson!”
   Little Horse pressed the male’s mouth down into the mud. “I strongly suggest you never say that in my mother’s hearing.”
   He wasn’t sure what to do. He wasn’t going to be able to keep the male pinned indefinitely. He couldn’t even change his hold. If he let go to draw his daggers, the male would regain his sword. Thesekasha’s chest armor protected him from most instant kill hits except those on the head, and those would be difficult to make if the warrior had hisejae in hand.
   A flash of red out the corner of his eyes warned him that the warrior had just become the least of his problems. He risked a glance toward the far corner of the market squares.
   The Wyverns had just arrived in force.
   And whilesekasha were above the law, the Wyverns had made it clear that they’d execute any of their caste fighting in the streets.* * *
   Never let your enemy know what you are thinking.
   Little Horse had the lesson beat into him almost every day of his life, so he knelt on the muddy cobblestones with his face carefully locked to neutral. Inside, though, he was grinning. His first real fight and he’d won. His win wasn’t completely decisive—the Wyverns arrived to put a stop to it before blood was spilt—but he wasn’t the one pinned to the ground getting mud in his mouth.
   The Stone Clansekasha had been named Feral Pig-Sticker of Stone who seemed determined to live up to his crude name. Pig-Sticker hadn’t realized yet the seriousness of their position. Nor did he seem to recognize the Wyvern standing in front of them.
   Not that Sword Strike of Fire carried any badge of his office; he could be a brother to any one of the twenty-one Wyverns in the market square. Truthfully if Little Horse hadn’t grown up at Court, he might not be able to tell the tall, red-hairedsekasha apart. Anyone that could read body language, though, should realize that all the Wyverns within sight were waiting on Sword Strike’s command.
   And Sword Strike had the right to execute them for fighting in a public place.
   “This is not a matter for the Fire Clan.” Pig-Sticker was old enough to have the protective spells of their caste tattooed down his arms in black and carry the magically sharpejae thatsekasha won only after they reached their majority of a hundred years old. He was throwing a snit, though, worthy of a child of only twenty.
   “This is Stone Clan business and you have no right to intrude.” The male wiped at the dirt on his face, showing his contempt with the narrowing of his eyes and the sneer in his voice. He was from some backwater province by his accent and the fact that he didn’t realize that the Wyverns oversaw every aspect of peace at Summer Court.
   “Be quiet,” Sword Strike said with ice-cold calmness. “It is not your turn to speak.”
   “Stone Clan settles its own matters…”
   “I am Sword Strike, the queen’s First,” the Wyvern identified himself. He did not add that it made him First for allsekasha, Stone Clan included. If he needed to, there was no hope for Feral Pig-Sticker.“I will hear your grievance after Galloping Storm Horse on Wind tells me his side of this.”
   Little Horse’s heart leapt slightly at the knowledge that Sword Strike recognized him. Technically they’d never met, but Sword Strike was the queen’s First; their paths had crossed and re-crossed Little Horse’s entire life.
   The warrior jerked in surprise and then stared at Little Horse hard.“He’s not Stone Clan?”
   “He was born to Wind. So far, he has not chosen otherwise.”
   Pig-Sticker blew out his breath in disgust and murmured,“Mutt.”
   Not the thing to say to a male whose only child was mixed caste.
   “Stormhorse will speak first.” Sword Strike’s voice was ice cold.
   Pig-Sticker ignored the tone.“He had first blow.”
   Sword Strike glanced to Little Horse to confirm this.
   Little Horse carefully explained.“He drew his sword first; I landed first blow.”
   Sword Strike glanced for anejae sheath on Little Horse and then scanned the marketplace. A few minutes earlier it had been crowded with lesser caste. The large square was now empty except for thesekasha. Sword Strike spotted the Stone Clan’sejae planted like a flag in muddy cobblestones near a bin of garlic.“You are unarmed?”
   “I have knives but I did not draw them.” Because they would have been useless against the longer sword. His only hope had been to grapple.
   “See, he struck…” The Stone Clan warrior started.
   “You will wait your turn.” Sword Strike pointed at the male and then shifted attention back to Little Horse. “What happened?”
   “I was accompanying my lord Longwind’s apothecary to market.” Little Horse did not add it was because he expected Clove to find trouble. “He did nothing to warrant attack. This one drew his sword without provocation on an unarmed member of my household. I judged his actions to be unjust andI prevented him from killing the apothecary.”
   “You took no effort to verbally challenge him?” Sword Strike asked.
   “I do not have shields or a sword and he had already drawn his weapon. I judged that giving him verbal warning would eliminate the only advantage that I had; namely, surprise. I did not strike with a blade but grappled him.”
   It apparently was starting to dawn on Pig-Sticker the danger that they were in; he got his face under control.
   “Why did you draw your weapon?” Sword Strike asked, with a long, cold stare.
   “The Wind Clan scum did not drop his gaze.” Pig-Sticker stated as if it explained everything.
   Sword Strike’s eyes narrowed slightly but he gave no other indication of his thoughts. “You drew your weapon because he did not cower in fear?”
   “His eyes are weak; he is nearly blind.” Little Horse blushed as he realized that he shouldn’t have interrupted. “Forgiveness.”
   Sword Strike studied Little Horse, face blank.“What is this male’s name?”
   “Clove Scented Smoke on Wind.” Little Horse realized he’d lost track of Clove during the fight. Hopefully the male hadn’t found more trouble.
   There was a delay as Clove was found and brought forward. The apothecary didn’t understand protocol; he tucked himself up against Little Horse instead of staying back.
   “Tell me what happened,” Sword Strike commanded.
   “I’m…not…sure.” Clove took out his glasses, fumbled with them a moment and then perched them on his nose. “They’re a human invention; not many of our people have my weakness. These let me see clearly but they tend to fall off. I normally only wear them when I’m sitting down. Withoutthem, everything is a blur. I didn’t have them on. I did not see the fight start. Once I realized what was happening, I didn’t know what to do. I know nothing about combat. I thought if I could find someone…” And he started to cry, which required the glasses to come back off. “Please. This is all my fault. If someone is to be punished, let it be me!”
   Did Sword Strike sigh? Little Horse wasn’t sure; the Wyvern had perfected his neutral façade.
   Pig-Sticker reacted as if Sword Strike had patted the little apothecary on the head.“He is not a child to toddle blindly about the streets. He is an adult; he should learn to be more careful.”
   “Learn to be more careful,” Sword Strike echoed. “Yes. I think that will be the solution here.”
   “Holy one?” Clove whimpered.
   Little Horse went cold inside. If for some insane reason the Wyvern decided to punish the apothecary, there was nothing he could do.
   “Feral Pig-Sticker of Stone,” Sword Strike said. “Obviously you need more training if you can be bested by an unarmed double. Please go to Cold Mountain Temple. Tell the Stone Clan holy ones there, in detail, about your defeat so they know what you need to learn.”
   Little Horse could not keep his eyes from widening. His grandfather, Tempered Steel, commanded Cold Mountain Temple. Despite the fact that his daughter chose her mother’s clan over his, he was fiercely protective of her. Should Little Horse warn Pig-Sticker not to repeat the “whoreson” insult?
   Sword Strike caught the change of Little Horse’s expression. He gave a slight shake of his head. No. The Wyvern wanted Feral Pig-Sticker to confess to all his faults. If he survived telling the tale, the training would be quite intensive.
   “I just arrived in Summer Court!” Pig-Sticker cried. “I’ve traveled all the way from Copper Palms. It took months for me to come all this distance.”
   The island was the southernmost point of the Stone Clan territory. It was nearly half the world away. Worse, to travel to Cold Mountain Temple, the warrior would retrace his steps for thousands of miles.
   Sword Strike waved away the protest.“I will arrange for you to travel on a royal packet ship.
   “There are twodomana of my clan reaching their doubles this year. They are coming to Summer Court to be acknowledged by the Clan Head and given an introduction to the queen. They’ll be taking their first Hand.
   “Once it is known that you were pinned by an unarmed double, it is unlikely that you could beat out the other contenders. Those who are trained at Cold Mountain are highly respected. You would be top candidate when the nextdomana comes of age in a decade or two.”
   All true. Little Horse had even considered finishing his training with his grandfather.
   “The packet ship leaves at noon from the royal airfield,” Sword Strike continued. “Gather your things and go. Now.”
   “I-I-I just got here…” Pig-Sticker trailed off. He stared at Sword Strike slack-jawed for a moment, and then whispered, “What if they will not train me? It is Cold Mountain Temple.”
   “I sent you. They will train you. Go.”
   Pig-Sticker went, radiating his unhappiness.
   Sword Strike set a guard on Clove to see that the apothecary purchased his herbs and returned safely to the Wind Clan compound. There was no mention of punishment for Clove, which only left Little Horse’s fate undecided. The Wyvern First pointed at him and said simply, “Come.”* * *
   They crossed into the Wind Clan section of the city but did not head toward the Clan Head’s compound. Little Horse walked beside Sword Strike wondering where they were going. What punishment did the Wyvern intend? Not to execute him; Sword Strike would have done that in the market square. Send him to one of the Wind Clan’s counterparts of Cold Mountain Temple? There were four including the one where his grandmother Perfection commanded. Each was as remote as his grandfather’s monastery. His life would be fixated on combat and spiritual enlightenment—which was not necessarily a bad thing. He liked to fight. His mother had split her childhood between the two temples. She’d chosen life at court, though, once she reached her majority.
   “You will be seventy this week,” Sword Strike stated.
   Little Horse struggled to maintain his neutral façade. “How did you know?”
   “You share the day with my daughter.”
   Little Horse knew he shared Discord’s birthday but he didn’t realize that her father was aware of it. It was unsettling information. “Yes, I will be seventy.”
   “What is your intention? Will you offer to Jewel Tear of Stone?”
   “No!” Little Horse blushed at the speed and volume of his answer. He wanted nothing to do with the female. If she didn’t love his blade brother, then she should have told him immediately. Wolf Who Rules had spoken purely from his heart when he asked Jewel Tear to be hisdomi; politically the move had been very dangerous. Such courage should have been answered quickly and honestly. Jewel Tear had made Wolf Who Rules wait Little Horse’s entire life for an answer. Little Horse could never serve anyone that didn’t give her answer to such an offer immediately.
   His name suggested that he would serve the goddess of war. He’d never considered that it meant he would offer to an actual female. His mother might be playful in spirit, but she wasn’t a dancing otter.
   But he couldn’t tell all that to Sword Strike. Little Horse scrambled for a true but less pure answer. “I could not be Sixth to her First; I do not fit.”
   Sword Strike nodded.“Tiger Eyes does not have the strength to hold against you. There would be a division between her Hands.”
   Why had Sword Strike ever thought he would offer to Jewel Tear in the first place? Had Jewel Tear finally broken her silence?“Why do you ask?”
   “Now that you are seventy, you can change your household or clan to one that better suits you. You could even train with one of your grandparents.”
   Was the male asking him to choose his own punishment? Pig-Sticker was a provincial nobody but Little Horse was the grandson of two of the most famous and powerfulsekasha still alive beyond Sword Strike himself. Was the male worried about political backlash?
   “I have not given it much thought.” Little Horse carefully chose his words. “I know that I can choose to change households at seventy but until I reach my majority, I am not a truesekasha.”
   “You want to offer to adomana?”
   “Yes.” After this morning, he was sure his answer came from his soul. “It will be another three decades before I win my sword and can offer, but yes, that is what I want.”
   Little Horse couldn’t tell if Sword Strike was satisfied with this answer or not; the Wyvern merely nodded. Little Horse was still mystified as to the reason for the conversation. They were far from Longwind’s compound; they’d reached the Wind Clan airfield at the edge of the city. There were only open pasturesbeyond the gossamer’s moorings.
   Since each clan had their own airfield, he was surprised that the area was filling up with Fire Clan troops. Nor were they commonlaedin-caste royal marines; it was a dozen Hands of Wyverns.
   “Forgiveness, but what is going on?” Little Horse asked.
   “Pure Radiance says that Wolf Who Rules will arrive this afternoon,” Sword Strike said.
   “He’s scheduled to return this week.” The Westernlands were over three thousand miles away; the ocean took days to traverse. Marauding monsters. Bad weather. Anything could have delayed Brother Wolf, but if Pure Radiance said he’d arrive today, most likely he would.
   The Wyverns would only greet thedomana of another clan if they intended to arrest him. Brother Wolf, though, could use the Fireesva. He was a favorite of his cousin, Queen Soulful Ember. He’d been totally out of contact for months. Nor was Wolf Who Rules one to be taken by force, not with his training and abilities. There was no logical reason for armed confrontation.
   Pure Radiance did not follow logic.
   “What has Pure Radiance accused Wolf Who Rules of?” Little Horse asked.
   “Nothing. We’re here because of what she needs him to do.” Sword Strike pointed at a small young gossamer with the gondola of Wind Clan blue. “There he is. Go meet him. Tell him that he’ll be returning to the Westernlands as soon as he’s talked with the queen. She’ll be here shortly.”* * *
   The Wyverns had not come empty-handed. They brought weapon crates, a mountain of dried keva beans in cloth sacks, mysterious chests and boxes, and a herd of babykuesi. Little Horse eyed the shaggy beasts currently the size of draft horses. It would take years for the animals to be large enough to do real work. What did Pure Radiance see in store for his blade brother?
   Wolf’s gossamer drifted to a stop over the moorings. Its tethers dropped to waiting ground crew, the rolls of heavy rope unraveling as they fell.
   Brother Wolf was first off the elevator in a show of trust to his cousins. Wolf must have left most hissekasha behind to guard the settlement; only Discord followed him. Despite the worry on Wolf’s face, he smiled and opened his arms wide to Little Horse. “You’ve gotten taller again.” His blade brother hugged him tightly, as if he had all the time in the world for Little Horse. “Why are you here alone with all these Wyverns?”
   Why am I?
   Sword Strike could have left him with Clove or sent him home. Why did the Wyvern First bring Little Horse here? What was the male doing in the Stone Quarters? It was a wide detour from the Fire Quarters to the Wind Quarters. Was it just luck that Sword Strike was the Wyvern that stopped his fight with Pig-Sticker? Or had Sword Strike been looking for Little Horse? Certainly Sword Strike knew who he was without having to ask his name.
   “I’m not sure,” he admitted.
   His mother had taught him that his name meant nothing; the only measure of his worth was what he did and said. He was aware, though, that most people expected great things from him because of his name. No one had ever indicated what those great things were going to be.
   Was this the eve of his future? Had Pure Radiance sent Sword Strike to find Little Horse?
   It was not Sword Strike that escorted Queen Soulful Ember across the airfield but the members of her Second Hand. It meant that her First was overseeing the Wyverns but also was a subtle indication that Wolf Who Rules was a trusted family member. Little Horse steeled himself against disappointment; he would not get any confirmation that he was meant to be there. He told himself that Discord was most likely more disappointed; she’d not seen her father since she won her sword. He could not imagine going so long without seeing his parents. He backed up to take guard position beside Discord as he struggled to keep his face neutral.
   “Our dear cousin,” the queen greeted Brother Wolf. She wore clothes as informal as her greeting: doeskin pants and a white silk blouse under red-scaled chest armor. She carried nothing to indicate her rank, not that she needed it. The Wyverns at her back were all she needed to claim her right.
   “Cousin,” Wolf echoed the greeting. “What do you need of me?”
   “To be my voice,” the queen said. “You are to be my Viceroy in the Westernlands.” She waved toward a procession of Wyverns carrying the mystery chests toward the gossamer’s lift. “The position comes with a distant voice and five hundred bars of gold bullion.”
   “Forgiveness?” Wolf glanced at the chests with confusion. They represented nearly as much seed money as Wolf started with. “Viceroy? There is nothing there but my own holdings.”
   “That will change,” she stated. “I need you to have the authority to speak as my representative.”
   “Who—who will I be speaking to? Has one of the other clans decided to use the land they were deeded?”
   She did not explain whom.“There is a place that you know of. You considered it as a site for your settlement. You stayed long enough to clear an airfield. In the end, you did not choose it.”
   Wolf shook his head as he thought.“There are several such places.”
   “Two rivers come together to form a great and mighty third river. A tall ridge overlooks that confluence from the south.”
   He nodded slowly to indicate that he knew what area she meant.“I don’t understand. There is nothing there but wilderness. We explored it, mapped severalfiutana but decided against it.”
   “You must return to that place. Something is about to happen there. Something beyond Pure Radiance’s ability to understand. One thing she has seen clearly: we must not ignore it. It has to be sought out, understood, and controlled, or it will destroy us.”
   “And the gold bullion?”
   “It is important that you can do business as equals with whomever you meet. Gold has always been universal.”
   His eyes widened.“You think the humans are going to find a way to Elfhome.”
   “We can only pray for creatures so benign. But yes, your fascination with them will make you invaluable in this. You speak many of their languages. You have studied their history; you know what they’re capable of. You must stand strong; do not allow them to think that we are weak. We are not primitives that can be bought with glass beads or bullied with firearms or overwhelmed by smallpox or measles. You are the strongestdomana ever born; make them respect you.”
   “Yes, your majesty.” Wolf retreated to his warrior-training; his face set to neutral. He bowed low to his cousin.
   Sorrow filled the queen’s eyes. She laid a hand on Wolf’s cheek. “Be careful, my dear cousin. If you’re too greatly outnumbered, fall back and send word to me. It is vital that we understand who we face, how they came to our world, and what they want.”
   Wolf bowed again.“I will be careful.”* * *
   After the queen had taken her leave, Brother Wolf turned and gave Little Horse a sad smile.“I’m sorry I won’t be able to spend time with you. I must go. Give my love to your mother.”
   Little Horse realized that if Sword Strike had brought him here because of his name, then now was the time to act.“Take me with you.”
   “Little Horse!” Wolf gripped his shoulders and gave him a little shake. “You’re not of age yet.”
   “I’m old enough to decide my household,” he said. “I know my heart. I want to go with you to the Westernlands. You will need me.”
   Wolf shook his head.“You are not old enough to fight.”
   Little Horse fought the fear that he’d run out of time and be swept aside and then left behind. He kept his voice level and chose his words as carefully as time allowed. “A horse does not fight. It bears your weight when you need to be carried. You will do the fighting.”
   Wolf glanced to Discord.
   The female’s father might be Sword Strike, but her mother was Pure Radiance. Her mixed caste was marked in her pale blond hair gathered into a tightsekasha braid. She looked more like her famous mother than her father.“My mother will not tell you if you ask,” she murmured. “Knowledge changes the path taken. It has to be his decision to go and your decision to take him.”
   “You were given a warrior’s name.” Little Horse reminded his brother. “We are bound at my birth by my name.”
   “My mother!” Discord snarled. “She named us all! She uses people like little chess pieces to move themselves over a game board that only she can see.”
   “If it was just a game,” Little Horse said, “your father Sword Strike would never allow it.”
   Discord snorted.
   “He is right,” Wolf said. “Nor would Pure Radiance bother if it was not important.”
   “You don’t know my mother…”
   “I know she is the most ruthless, calculating female alive. She would do anything to see the future fulfilled: betray her own mother, sacrifice her lover, or bear a child and put her in the path of danger. I know she guided us through the Rebellion and out of the Clan Wars. If we must walk this path to protect our people, then we will.”
   Wolf leaned forward to press his forehead against Little Horse’s. “I love you, little brother. And you’re not so little anymore, so I must acknowledge that it is your right to follow your heart. I offer you the protection of my household and when the time comes and you win your sword, I will gladly accept all that you are willing to offer to me. If at that time, your heart takes you elsewhere, so be it.”
   He wanted to say“never.” If Wolf wanted the comfort of allowing him such unwanted freedom as the price for taking Little Horse to the Westernlands, then he would keep his silence. “Thank you.”

Взято из Флибусты, http://flibusta.net/b/676464
