
   Sherlock Holmes
   and the Nine-Dragon Sigil
   By
   Tim Symonds
 [Картинка: i_001.jpg] 
   Sigil. Pronounced sijil. An inscribed or painted symbol or occult sign considered to have magical power
   About the Author
   Tim Symonds was born in London. He grew up in Somerset, Dorset and the Channel Island of Guernsey. After several years travelling widely, including farming in the Highlands of Kenya and living along the Zambezi River in Central Africa, he emigrated to the United States. He studied at Göttingen, in Germany, and the University of California, Los Angeles, graduating Phi Beta Kappa in Political Science.
   He is a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society.
 [Картинка: i_002.jpg] 

   Nagarkot Hill Station, Himalayas
   Sherlock Holmes And The Nine-Dragon Sigilwas written in a converted oast house near Rudyard Kipling’s old home, Bateman’s, in the English county of East Sussex.
   To my beautiful partner Lesley

   Backdrop
   Like all my plots,Sherlock Holmes And The Nine-Dragon Sigiltakes place in the halcyon days when Edward VII of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha was on the throne of England, the king-emperor for whom the Era was named, a time when yellow fogs drifted eerily along London’s half-lit streets, agile Hansom cabs with Holmes and Watson bumping around inside rattled away to heaven-knows-where, a ‘leisurely time when women wore picture hats and did not vote, when the rich were not ashamed to live conspicuously, and the sun never set on the British flag’.
   Edwardian summers were reputed to be unusually warm though the Meteorological Office tells me this was not true.
   By the time Edward came to the throne in 1901, Holmes and Watson had spent the best part of two decades together, solving knotty cases which baffled the best of Scotland Yard’s detectives. The great Consulting Detective’s use of observation, deductive reasoning and scientific knowledge fascinated young and old, rich and poor, New York illuminatus or London East Ender alike. It was a period when Holmes and Watson reached their height in experience and maturity, men of the world in step with the immense British Empire. Even Watson’s confidence was burgeoning despite Holmes’s occasional biting put-downs.
   The real-life Criminologist Ashton-Wolfe later recorded inThe Illustrated London News that many methods invented by Sherlock Holmes became commonplace in police practices. The quick arrival at the scene, the examination of the lock and key, the bed, the chairs, the carpet, the mantelpiece, the body and the rope.
   ‘Holmesian’ clubs were forming with names drawn from Watson’s chronicles. A club near the pair’s former lodgings called themselves ‘the Baker Street Irregulars’. At Princeton University, they titled themselves ‘The Napoleons of Crime’. In France, ‘Le Cercle Holmésien de Paris’.A women’s Holmesian club in New York took an aphorism from the Roman poet Ovid as their motto:Gutta cavat lapidem, non vi sed saepe cadendo -‘A drop carves the rock, not by force but by persistence’, although Holmes always seemed to solve the most baffling crimes in flashes of deductive brilliance, as he does (both to Watson’s and to my surprise)inThe Nine-Dragon Sigil.
   For no discernible reason the Great Detective retired unexpectedly to his bee-farm in Sussex in late 1903 or early 1904. It came as a great shock to the faithful Watson. He was obliged to return to private practice in London’s fashionable Parish of Marylebone. Watson had practiced medicine only intermittently and reluctantly since his army days in India’s North-West Frontier and Afghanistan a quarter century before. It comes as no surprise that the old soldier, Holmes’s amanuensis, was soon bored with his wealthy clientele.
   Not for the first time in Watson’s life, Fate - Kismet - steps in. A chauffeur arrives at the Marylebone surgery with an invitation from the Foreign Office& India Office. No enterprise in which he was ever engaged would oblige Watson to undertake so arduous a journey or put him in such peril as the one he was about to be offered.
   Chapter I
   I Become Restless
   The clock on the mantelpiece announced half-past two. I stared around me, fingers drumming on the desk. The framed medical diplomas inscribed‘Dr. John H. Watson MD’ on the wall and the stethoscope lying on the writing-table told even the most casual observer it was a doctor’s consulting room, and I, in the round-backed chair, the practitioner in charge.
   It was the year 1906. Another fine Edwardian summer would soon pass behind me. In the outside worldHomo sapiens sapiens, the most influential species on the earth, was stretching himself. An Old Etonian by the name of Charles Rolls and a fine, self-educated mechanic by the name of Frederick Royce had unveiled a motor-car which was to become the legendary Rolls Royce Silver Ghost. Communications were advancing with blinding speed. The British Army and Royal Navy were experimenting with triodes and wireless telegraphy to replace the mechanical semaphore system, the Mk 1V heliograph and the Lime Light signalling lamp of my military days in India and Afghanistan. The French pioneer Guillaume Joseph Gabriel de La Landelle coined the word‘aviation’ from ‘Avis’ the Latin word for bird.
   My old comrade-in-arms Sherlock Holmes had been in self-imposed retirement on the Sussex Downs for three years,‘watching the little working gangs of honey bees’ with the same fervour as he once investigated the criminal world in cases such asThe Boscombe Valley Mystery andThe Adventure Of The Noble Bachelor. Until– out of the blue - he announced his immediate retirement I thought I had become as immutable in his life as Bank Holidays and the Changing of the Guard are to the nation. Without Holmes at the helm I felt like a diver too suddenly hoisted, a sea-beast fished up from the depths. ‘Notoriety has become hateful to me,’ was his unsatisfactory explanation.
   My abstracted gaze fixed on the clock-hand ticking the minutes. I reached into a drawer for my tobacco pouch. Awaiting the afternoon’s patients I resented the theft of time more than any theft of goods or money. My income lay largely in fees for treating the fashionable afflictions of the day such as gout, or the debilitating effect on society-women’s lung capacity of tight-laced corsets. ‘Hardly equal to discovering the mosquito’s role in transmitting malaria or heroic research into yellow fever,’ I muttered dolefully to myself. Many patients came with ailments attributable to ill-advised leisure pursuits, or, in the case of long-suffering Lady P_____, a spouse’s propensities. Married into one of the highest and most exalted names in England, she arrived regularly for treatment forNeisseria gonorrhoeaein a fetching pleated silk Fortuny dress, the luscious colour between pale red and dark pink, embellished with gold pomegranates.
   I came to a decision. One quick pipe and then if no patient squeezed through the door I would take a life-enhancing promenade around Regent’s Park. A sharp walk sets the mind working. A note on the surgery door would ask the patients to return in the morning. The tutorial with my registrar could wait an hour or two.* * *
   The click of the door behind me brought a feeling of relief. At the Baker Street Underground railway a large poster next to a newspaper vendor proclaimed a brand-new exhibition at the menagerie at the north end of Regent’s Park, ‘to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the year the eminent Naturalist Charles Darwin became a Fellow of the Zoological Society’.
   I purchased a copy ofThe Times. A familiar sight in our Baker Street days was Holmes rummaging and reading an immense litter of daily and weekly newspapers, with intervals of note-taking and meditation until our landlady brought us our evening meal. Then he would suddenly roll them all into a gigantic ball and toss them up on to a rack. Even in retirement Holmes insisted upon being supplied with newspaper clippings - criminal proceedings at the Old Bailey, the deaths of infamous criminals. Above all, references to himself. Like stage actors and prime ministers, one cannot expect a Consulting Detective even of Holmes’s fame to be free of all human weakness.* * *
   I entered the calm of the Park and chose a bench facing a small island in the lake colonised by a group of herons. According toThe Times England was comfortingly alive and well. A letter to the Editor called for a Great National Monument to record for all time the majesty and reach of the British Empire,‘an Empire which has attained the power and splendour probably hitherto unequalled in the history of the world’. The writer asked, ‘What evidence will be forthcoming, say, in eight thousand years’ time, for some future Flinders Petrie digging among the buried cities of the British Isles?’.
   In another letter a Dr. W. K. Sibley of Duke Street, Grosvenor Square, W., author of a book on the treatment of disease by light and heat, attacked the tea-drinking habit. It was, he stated,‘becoming almost as much a curse and cause of disease as alcohol’. Below Dr. Sibley’s letter a Dr. Yorke-Davies of Harley Street recommended tea but not infused for longer than five minutes. He announced himself a ‘strong advocate of teas grown in China’. Elsewhere the reader was told theArgentine tango was the rage of the dance-floor. London’s basements were springing into life as vegetarian restaurants.
   There was no reference in the newspaper to Holmes. Had he at last buried his nose in his promised opus? He had already authored‘The Typewriter and its Relation to Crime’. InA Case of Identity, Holmes noticed all the letters received by Mary Sutherland from a Mr. Hosmer Angel were typewritten. By soliciting a note from his suspect, Holmes brilliantly analysed the idiosyncrasies of the man’s typewriter and had him arrested. Fifteen years earlier it was I who prompted Holmes to consider writing a work to be titled ‘The Whole Art Of Observation And Detection’ after he lectured me on faces while we sped in an agile Hansom to the setting of ‘The Five Orange Pips’.
   ‘I am surprised, Watson,’ he chastised me, ‘how little you as a medical man make of facial expressions. You can glean much from a careful study. The great Charles Darwin says they can be grouped into fear, happiness, sadness, anger, contempt, disgust, and surprise.Homo sapiensdoes not communicate by word alone - our eyes, nose, forehead and cheeks all have their say. They reveal multitudes about what we are thinking, feeling, intending. Some emotions we recognise at once - a reddening face and eyes wide and staring are typical of anger, a clear danger signal, back down or you may be harmed. Flared nostrils also suggest hostility. By contrast, the skin turning white is an indication of fear, a bluish tinge extreme fear. The blood abandons the face and goes to muscles where its power is needed more.’
   ‘Surely, Holmes,’ I questioned, ‘any of us - especially a criminal - can learn to fake our facial expressions?’
   ‘Scarcely one in a dozen can flex the corners of the lips without also moving their chin muscles,’ came the reply. ‘The extra chin movement, that’s the giveaway.’
   I folded the newspaper and gazed across the water. A troublesome shadow lay across the beneficent reign of King Edward.The Times reported in full on the Royal visit to his nephew, the German Kaiser Wilhelm. Such were the gathering tensions between our two countries thatThe Strand Magazine was considering publishing an article titled‘Is The Kaiser Mad?’. The answer would be sought from ‘highly reputed psychologists’ including a Dr. Morton Prince. The magazine’s editor had half-made up his mind already. The subtitle asked the question ‘An Asylum - Or St. Helena?’.
   Within minutes I was on the move again, heading towards the Zoological Gardens. A meeting was taking place on the Macclesfield Bridge. Some thirty well-dressed, well-mannered women were clustered around the banner of the National Union of Women’s Suffrage Societies. One of their number mounted an orange box and began to read aloud from a copy of a letter suffrage campaigner Mrs. Millicent Fawcett had just sent to the new Prime Minister on the subject of votes for women. I stopped to listen. The woman’s voice carried audibly on the slight breeze.
   ‘Mr. Campbell-Bannerman, this country has come to the end of the 19th Century and embarked on all the challenges and opportunities - dangers even - inherent in a new Century, yet we women - those many millions of us - British citizens all - do not have the right to vote. Without the vote we cannot decide who we wish to prosecute our views in Parliament. We cannot contribute our skills, our commitment, our voices, where it matters, seated on the green benches of the House of Commons, the so-called ‘Mother of Parliaments’. And who else other than women cannot vote? Prisoners in His Majesty’s gaols! Inmates of the Bethlem Royal Hospital for the insane in Southwark! The poorest and least educated men.’
   At this the woman’s tone changed. She pointed in the direction of Downing Street.
   ‘I have a warning for you, Mr. Campbell-Bannerman. Unless a peaceful appeal to the Government has an effect, it must force many hundreds of women to abandon a patient, painstaking strategy in favour of attacking the very system itself. Women will set about harassing politicians, courting arrest and creating a spectacle wherever possible.’
   She ended proclaiming in a loud voice, holding the copy aloft,‘Yours very sincerely, Millicent Fawcett’.
   At the name‘Millicent Fawcett’ every woman present gave a loud cheer.
   A young man next to me snorted. He wore a flamboyant day cravat displaying squares of blue elephants on crimson silk. He deliberately engaged my eye.
   ‘Can you imagine the chaos,’ he exclaimed, scorn in his voice, ‘if women got the vote!’
   I reached towards him and delicately pinched the top of his neckwear.
   ‘Can you imagine,’ I replied equably, ‘anyone walking through Regent’s Park flaunting such a deplorable cravat?’
   We both broke into friendly guffaws.
   A Suffragist came over to us with a leaflet. She pointed upwards.
   ‘We women are taking to the air,’ she said.
   I looked up. As reported inThe Times, the Australian-born Suffragette Muriel Manners was up among the scudding clouds dropping yellow, green and white leaflets on London (‘like beautifully coloured birds’) from a hot-air balloon piloted by aeronaut Henry Spencer. Reluctantly, I turned towards home. Had I known what adventure lay in store hardly a week away my desultory pace would without question have had a spring in it.* * *
   I was busy for the next few days before a gap in the flow of patients opened up. I sent Holmes a telegram inviting myself for a weekend at his bee-farm. I planned to urge him at the very least to dictate some of the cases he conducted in past years where I was not at his side. There was his summons to Odessa in the case of the Trepoff murder, or the encounter with the‘Queen of Disguise’. Or clearing up the singular tragedy of the Atkinson brothers at Trincomalee. Plus the intriguing affair of the two Coptic Patriarchs. Holmes’s unpublished cases alone would guarantee his fame, a ‘notoriety’ which would last long after history swept all other contemporary detectives from memory.
   Chapter II
   I Go Down to Sussex to See Holmes
   Holmesaccepted my self-invitation to visit him. I parcelled up a supply of books to freshen my old comrade’s shelves, including an advance copy ofThe Turnpike Sailor - Or Rhymes on the Road by Clark Russell, H. G.Wells’s A Short History Of The World, a new story by Rudyard Kipling titledA Washout, set in South Africa, and A.E.W. Mason’sThe Four Feathers, and the latest Philip’s Atlas of London.
   My visit had a purpose over and above renewing our friendship and restocking book-shelves. The editors ofThe Strand planned a competition to choose the top twelve Sherlock Holmes cases. The readers would be faced with some forty to be weighed against each other. I was to obtain from Holmes a listing of his cases in the order he himself judged them. Where a reader’s entry precisely matched his, the former would receive a year’s free subscription to the magazine.
   Aboard the train, the fine Sussex landscape unfolded at sixty miles per hour. I hazarded a guess Holmes would rateThe Adventure of the Speckled Bandwith its deadly Indian swamp adder top of his list, or at the very least second. And for its involvement in a world of diplomacy and intrigue,The Adventure of the Second Stain. There wasA Scandal In Bohemia, with more female interest than any other of our manifestos. Would the large American readership produce results similar to Britain’s?
   I lit my pipe and considered. Yes, I thought, selecting twelve would challengeThe Strand’s readers whichever side of the Ocean. Holmes could hardly overlook one case which dealt with the only foe who ever really extended him, and which deceived the public (and me) into the erroneous inference of his death. Therefore I would expectThe Adventure of the Final Problem.
   At Eastbourne I took a motor cab the two or three miles to Beachy Head and switched to a horse-drawn carriage for the remainder of the journey along the narrow country lanes and muddy tracks to Holmes’s farmstead. He was waiting for me on his verandah, tweed-suited, briar in hand, when the horse-drawn carriage from Beachy Head brought me to his isolated home. Though slightly stooped in the cooling air sweeping in from the Channel the tall, spare figure still reflected the time he was idolisedby swordsmen everywhere as captain of the British épee and sabre teams, and the only foreign swordsman to be elected to France’s Académie des Armes.
   Holmes welcomed the driver with,‘A nice little brougham, I see it was once the pride of the Earl of Arundel,’ pointing to a painted-over trace of the previous owner’s coat of arms on the carriage doors, ‘and (referring to the horses) a pair of beauties. You must leave me your card.’
   After such pleasantries he turned his attention to me.
   ‘I see you’ve put on seven and a half pounds since we last met,’ he chastised.
   ‘Seven at the most, Holmes!’ I retorted.
   Holmes bid me enter the house and waved me to an armchair, throwing across a case of cigars, and indicating a spirit case and the old gasogene in the corner. I glanced around. Except for an unfamiliar tidiness due, presumably, to a housekeeper, the old landmarks from 221B, Baker Street were all in their place. There was the chemical corner and there the acid-stained, deal-topped table. The diagrams, the pipe-rack, even the Persian slipper containing his tobacco, and finally the precious violin, a Stradivarius bought on Tottenham Court Road for fifty-five shillings, the four strings tuned in perfect fifths.
   Noting where my glance had stopped, Holmes remarked,‘Do you know who was the fastest violinist ever?’
   ‘I don’t,’ I replied. ‘And to tell the truth I’m not...’
   ‘Paganini. He was recorded playing 12 notes per second.’
   Holmes lit a pipe and leant against the mantel, regarding me with his singularly introspective look. Smoke-rings chased each other up to the ceiling. I asked if he maintained contact with‘old friends’ at Scotland Yard, those involved in many of our most famous cases, Inspectors Althelney Jones, and Gregson, the ferret-like Lestrade, or Algar from the Liverpool Force.
   ‘Hardly, my dear fellow,’ came the amused reply. ‘The best function Scotland Yard serves is to make the pseudoscience of astrology look respectable.’
   The gap of months melted away.
   The evening found us in a picturesque old room with sanded floors and high-backed settles at our favourite haunt, the Tiger Inn, situated half a mile inland from the chalk cliffs of the Seven Sisters. Holmes was determined to add to my knowledge of bees. I was equally determined to resist. I blamed their siren calls for my comrade’s premature retirement. Nevertheless, on the completion of a fine dessert the conversation went –
   ‘Watson, I’ve estimated how far a bee flies to gather the nectar needed to produce a quart of honey. How many miles would you say?’
   ‘I haven’t the faintest, Holmes.’
   ‘48,000 miles. Isn’t that a fact worth noting?’
   ‘I can’t think to which sane person it would be,’ I replied.
   An hour or so later, with a fine bottle of Clos du Bourg inside us, we returned on foot to the farmhouse under an immense buttermilk sky, the full moon stepping from cloud to cloud. We settled into two arm-chairs, the tobacco jar on a table exactly equidistant between us.
   ‘Well, Watson,’ my old friend began, thumbing tobacco into his favourite blackened clay pipe, ‘as to the list you mention, I’ve given it considerable thought since your letter arrived. Among the grimmest of our cases isThe Speckled Band. That, I’m sure, will be quite high on any list.’
   Holmes’s pipe stabbed at me like a sixth finger, just as it had at our old quarters at 221B, Baker Street. The deep-set grey eyes twinkled.
   ‘Then there are the cases in which you strive the difficult task of explaining away my alleged death and which introduce a villain as vile as Colonel Sebastian Moran. They deserve their place.’
   I wrote downThe Final Problem,A Scandal In Bohemia, andThe Empty House.
   He continued,‘But as to my top choice - rather, choices - I have settled on three which I recall with the utmost satisfaction and enjoyment. In fact I would place them equal first.’
   ‘And they are?’ I asked pencil poised.
   ‘Silver Blaze. And, like you,’ he continued, guessing at my likely choice, ‘our time on those strange Devon moors inThe Hound of the Baskervilles. We must includeThe Mystery of Einstein’s Daughter. Serbia was a strange land, almost beyond imagination.’
   The following day found me back at the Marylebone surgery. The waiting-room echoed with a medley of coughs and sneezes, the pitches in novel combinations perfectly suited to a Schönberg composition. The last of my patients in the memorandum-book was Lord P______ himself, a man immersed in large public questions and listed in Sherlock Holmes’s ‘general encyclopaedia of reference’. Unaware his wife was a patient, he confessed he was once more suffering from a disease prevalent among those who benefitted themselves of the multitudes of ‘ladies of the night’ filling the streets of the Capital. I administered an injection of mercury into the urethra.
   I had just told him to pull up his trousers when, after a single urgent knock, the receptionist threw open the door and beckoned me to follow her. Apologising to the heroically indiscreet nobleman I hurried out with the practioner’s immediate assumption something dramatic had occurred. Had someone - not for the first time - fallen in front of a train at nearby Paddington Station, scattering their limbs to the four corners? Orbeen knocked down by a speeding Wolseley-Siddeley van in the busy street outside my very premises,given the automobile had graduated from a noisy fad to a passion in all parts of the country?
   Worse, could Sherlock Holmes have suffered a grievous accident, isolated as he was on his bee-farm on the South Downs? He mentioned on the last occasion that over the years his usually mildApis Mellifera had stung him precisely 7,860 times. My professional advice had been forthright. Avoid being stung again. An allergy could set in out of the blue, whether the first or the 7,861st sting. Within minutes it could trigger a potentially deadly anaphylactic reaction.
   I came into the reception room at a rush to be met by a smart salute from a chauffeur standing at attention. He politely asked me to step outside where I was asked to confirm my particulars (‘You are Dr. John H. Watson?’ ‘And the H stands for what, sir?’) before he reached into his jacket. He handed over a special telegram stampedPrivate and Secret.
   The telegram was from Sir Edward Grey, Britain’s new Foreign Secretary. Not yet enveloped in the international fame he was to gain, Sir Edward had two useful attributes - a good Parliamentary seat, and money. His grandfather left him a private income, a baronet’s hereditary title and an estate of about 2,000 acres.
   The message read,‘Dear Dr. Watson, it would greatly honour War Minister Haldane and me if you could attend a private meeting tomorrow. If so, shall we say the India Office at 10am? It will be very good to see you again. Very sincerely yours, E. Grey.’
   Sir Edward was a countryman after my own heart. On the first occasion we met he told me,‘I’d far rather catch a three-pound trout on the River Itchen than make a highly successful speech in the House’.
   His Parliamentary colleague Richard Burdon Haldane, already regarded as one of Britain’s greatest War Ministers, had been elected in 1885 as a Liberal of Imperialist bent.
   I scribbled a reply and handed it to the chauffeur, keeping my patients waiting long enough for him to answer questions about his vehicle. He explained the functioning of the water-cooled brake drums and told me he had graduated from the Daimler Company’s school of instruction for chauffeurs just off the Gray’s Inn Road.
   Driver and the magnificent 40 horsepower Napier roared off followed by my envious eye. I planned to take the plunge and equip myself with a motor-car. There was an interesting new automobile, the Aerocar, an air-cooled, four-cylinder luxury car delivered from America for about£700 which included cap, goggles and gauntlet gloves.
   I reread the telegram. There was a puzzling omission. It made no mention of Sherlock Holmes.
   Chapter III
   I am Invited to the Foreign Office to Meet an Oriental Potentate
   Thenewly-constructed Bakerloo Line on the Underground took me to Embankment followed by a short walk along the Thames to the Foreign Office& India Office. The Departments were housed in a vast Victorian Italianate building deliberately designed to impress, like the Royal Courts of Justice, providing a sumptuous setting for affairs of state and diplomatic functions.
   I was ushered into the Durbar Court. Doric columns on the ground floor and Ionic on the second were of polished red Peterhead granite, while the top floor Corinthian columns were of grey Aberdeen granite. The flooring was of Greek, Sicilian and Belgian marble. A man in livery greeted me. To my surprise he led me out of the building to a small side-entrance overlooking the Charles Steps and St. James’s Park. Almost furtively Sir Edward was waiting there. We shook hands, the Foreign Secretary greeting me with a polite ‘Good to see you again, Dr. Watson’. Throwing a cautionary glance at a fog-spectacles hawker on the opposite pavement, he said, ‘For the sake of privacy I’d like to holdour chat in St. James’s Park. At Duck Island Cottage on the lake. You’d be astonished at what our friends in the daily Press get up to, to winkle out a story.’
   He continued,‘The War Minister will be there but it’s the other person you’re here to meet, a Chinese potentate, General Yuán Shì-kai. Yuán is the surname.’
   Duck Island Cottage was a small gingerbread building of vaguely Swiss inspiration, embowered with climbing plants and trimmed with ornamental barge-boards finials. It was the residence of the Park’s Bird Keeper, though manifestly it served a dual purpose as a Foreign Office place of assignation. As we strolled towards the cottage Sir Edward said, ‘On our one previous encounter you were very much the colleague of Mr. Sherlock Holmes. As the War Minister will make clear, this time you will be acting in your own right.’
   My chest puffed out.
   The visitor was short and burly, with a pickedevant beard and the stance of a boxer. From the popular Gilbert& Sullivan comic operaThe Mikado, westerners easily jumble up Japanese and Chinese. We expect all Oriental men to be clad in a changpao and sporting a moustache drooping to the chin. They would wear woven bamboo hats covered with cream silk gauze, like a lampshade.
   The War Minister made the formal introduction. General Yuán and I saluted as befitted men of military backgrounds and stepped up close to each other to shake hands.
   The General’s eyes were alive with interest, fine and clear. They fixed me with keen penetration. In stature, facial expression, contour of features as well as in the manner of wearing his moustache (though not his modish Buffalo Bill Cody vandyke beard) he greatly resembled France’s new Prime Minister, Clemenceau.
   Far from being attired in saffron-coloured robes or clutching a bejewelled pipe, the man before me was dressed in an expensively tailored hacking jacket and checked cravat as though about to catch a day at the horse races. On the coat-rack behind him hung a more traditional Oriental piece of clothing, a long silk coat slit up the sides to allow horseback riding, embroidered front and back with a white crane, the prince of all feathered creatures on earth. I was to learn later the crane signified a personage of the first rank.
   Haldane invited our visitor to open the conversation. The General stepped up to a large map of China on the wall and began to speak.
   ‘Gentlemen, events of the past fifty years have shown the Army of the Great East must catch up with the Great West. The world has seen how the despised Japanese bandits defeated us. My country has been soundly sleeping on the top of a pile of kindling lying in the midst of a group of strong Powers with a box of matches in their hand. The Russians spy on us in the north, the French stare at us in the south, the Japanese are watching us like pygmy chameleons in the east, and you English are peeping at us from the west. I am not convinced our traditional ways of qi, meridians, and acupuncture points will serve us any better on the battlefields of the future.
   The world outside our borders watches like crows on a fence, intent on divvying up my country between them. In their eyes China is a hay cart. Everyone feels free to take from it what they want. Germany hankers after Shantung, France after Yunnan, Japan after Fuhkien, Belgium after Tianjin. The Italians eye the Bay of San Mun. Russia is the worst of all - their Viceroys dream of creating another Muscovite Empire on the shores of the Pacific, such as Rome created on the shores of the Bosphorus.’
   A shadow crossed his face.
   ‘Our people shake at the prospect of the ‘White Peril’ sweeping across our land. Our people fear the white race intends to do to us what you have done to the American Indians and African negroes - impose a humiliating colonial serfdom. Even annihilate us. If we just fold our arms and yield, Ishall have no face to see our ancestors after death.’
   He paused.
   ‘This is where you, Dr. Watson, come in.’
   ‘How can I be of help?’ I asked, perplexed.
   General Yuán beckoned me to join him at the table where Sir Edward was pouring the tea. He dipped his finger in a cup and began to draw maps on the dusty table-top.
   ‘My aim is to build up a modern army. Divisions will be stationed here, here, and here - Manchuria and Shantung, Chihli and Nanyuán, Paoting and Peking - enough to hold all foreign armies at bay, including the Russian Bear. We must standardise the drilling, the equipment, the instruction and finance, and the organization of the Army –but even if I had half a million trained men under my command, their numbers would be meaningless unless they stay in good condition. Napoleon Bonaparte said an army marches on its stomach. I say an Army depends just as much on the health of its soldiery. I plan the establishment of half a dozen Imperial Army Medical companies. That’s where you come in. We need your advice and expertise.’
   He nodded at the two attentive politicians.
   ‘Our friends here brought to my attention your stint as a medical officer with the 5th Northumberland Fusiliers in Afghanistan back in 1880. Sir Edward tells me you are a man of impetuous courage. Come out to High Asia, Doctor. Help me form the first of those Medical companies, a prototype.’
   He ended poetically,‘If you carry out this mission, China’s gratitude will endure until the T’ai Mountain shrinks to the size of a grindstone, and the Yellow River becomes a mere seasonal rivulet.’
   ‘This request is somewhat of a surprise,’ I stammered hesitantly, darting a look at Grey and Haldane. ‘Where would I...?’
   ‘...begin?’ the General broke in. ‘The Chinese philosopher Laozi points out a journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step. It would be best to go to my country overland, by the least likely, therefore the most hazardous route. Once you touch the soil of France follow your nose east for 5,000 miles to Kashgar.’
   He nodded towards Grey and Haldane.
   ‘With the Ministers’ permission, I’ll have orders left for you at the British Mission there.’
   He added,‘You will end the assignment at the Forbidden City. I’m sure you would like to meet our famous Regent of the Empire, the Divine Mother Empress Dowager Cixi, our ‘Good Queen Bess’, our She-Dragon.’
   The General continued,‘Our people say she has a secret army of women hidden in nearby forests. The troops are so numerous they are named ‘the Purple Cloud’. Each is clad in purple hue and carrying a bow and arrows of the same colour. They have bound feet yet move with preternatural speed. It is said they can leap great distances into the air, and rise under the bellies of galloping horses. Their leader is known as Jade Woman or ‘the divine-shouldered bowman’ because of the immense power of her bow and the distance and accuracy she shoots her arrows.’
   I needed no more to make my decision. I got to my feet and once again shook his hand, offering my services. Haldane brought him the long silk coat. As the General turned to leave I asked,‘Where do you go from here?’
   ‘I’m already late for a chat with Mr. Marconi at The Wireless Telegraph& Signal Company. I may have work for him in China. Tomorrow I shall do the rounds of your famous teaching universities, starting with the University of London. China needs teachers, professors. Astronomy, navigation, mechanics, geography, trigonometry, engineering and so on. I shall poach them.’
   He nodded towards the watchful Foreign Secretary and smiled.
   ‘Then Brighton. I have the offer of a tour of a famous palace there.’
   Grey intervened.
   ‘The Royal Pavilion. I want General Yuán to know we have buildings as fine as the ones we hear of in Peking.’
   The General resumed,‘Afterwards I shall take in a performance of a play on the Palace Pier, by your famous Mr. Shakespeare - my first. Then I shall be driven to Sherborne. My three sons are in school there. The eldest is playing in the last cricket match of the season, against their great rivals Canford School. I plan to attend it.’
   His expression became serious.
   ‘Dr. Watson, you will have to arm yourself for the journey. My enemies are many. They will become your enemies too. Any trespasser in the mountain badlands is regarded as fair game by the local tribesmen. You will face physical hardship. The winters are cruel, the summers sweltering. You will need mules and ponies, cooks and coolies. You will cling dizzily to mountain ledges. There are sections where if you stray you will - when you are already past the point of no return - be informed of your drift by a continuous line of bones and bodies.
   Above all, until you get to Peking, do not readily reveal you are a member of the medical profession. The only western doctors in China are missionaries. In much of China’s hinterland, if you are mistaken for a Christian missionary, I cannot guarantee your life. I have no idea whether you are a man of religious faith or entirely without, but I simply state the truth when I say the Chinese people suffer as much from the missionary onslaught as from all of Europe’s and America’s standing armies combined.’
   He paused, then with a slight air of apology explained,‘If I may speak bluntly, these missionaries are forcing their faith ever deeper into my country. They build their churches all over the place with no heed to our deep belief in Feng-shui. Not even our graves are dug until the geomancer has determined the exact spot, its orientation and design, yet with reference to nothing your Christians erect buildings of stone, with arches and tall spires pointing straight towards Heaven. Are you surprised these outposts of your Empires get blamed when the next outbreak of disease strikes the surrounding peasantry? The next famine? The next invasion of locusts? The next drought? Is it surprising that to the Chinese every foreigner is fair game?’
   He continued,‘They seek the overthrow of our traditional religions, Buddhism, Confucianism and Taoism. They even vilify each other in their scramble for Chinese souls. Do we send our priests wandering over the earth to destroy the gods of other peoples? The foreign prelates seem to believe we Chinese are an immoral, cruel and degraded race; that we are utterly dishonest opium-eaters and in every way depraved; and that only a forcible diffusion of Christianity can save our Empire from speedy and overwhelming ruin. They say our people believe more in ghosts, fox spirits, immortals and demons than a Creator, more in fate and destiny than either heaven or the soul.’
   The indignant outburst was followed by a swift grin and pleasant nod in my direction. His eyes twinkled.
   ‘Dr. Watson, on rather more mundane matters. I ask your advice.’
   He gestured at my Morning Suit.
   ‘It will be my first visit to Sherborne School. I wish to emulate an English gentleman. What attire should I arrive in to attend a cricket match?’
   Tongue-in-cheek I replied,‘If you wish to amuse the schoolboys, a black top-hat, frock-coat, high gaiters and a hunting-crop. However, something quieter might confound the young beggars. The weather’s still warm enough. I suggest flannel trousers and a blazer. Blue, green and red stripes are the fashion.’
   I had only the day before purchased a fine boater for summer visits to the Gatwick Races, a‘skimmer’ crafted from stiff sisal straw and finished with a smart black Petersham ribbon.
   I continued,‘As to a hat, a Panama boater. A stylish fino. Like the American President Theodore Roosevelt. I recommend the cool summer weave.’
   ‘Where would I acquire such a thing?’ he inquired.
   ‘Nowhere better than my own hatters, Lock& Co, St. James’s Street,’ I responded. ‘Also, while you’re making Englishmen of your sons, when you’re in Brighton you might pop into Blackwell’s Bookshop and buy the latest Wisden’s, the Cricketers’ Almanack. Wisden’s is the ‘bible’ for every player of the British Empire’s favourite game.’
   With a polite‘I shall pay both Lock’s and Blackwell’s Bookshop a visit, thank you for the suggestions,’ the General turned to the others, bowed, exchanged hand-shakes, turned once more to salute me and made his exit.
   Outside, a posse of bodyguards in leopardskin-patterned uniforms came running and fell in around him. Through the window we watched the gaggle progress across the short bridge like the ducks on the lake’s placid waters.
   At a nod from Sir Edward Grey, the War Minister turned to me.
   ‘Dr. Watson, Sir Edward and I are about to take you into our deepest confidence. Indisputably your medical advice will be of great value to the Yuán’s New Army but there would be an additional dimension to your journey. The General’s request is fortuitous from England’s strategic point of view. As Sir Edward will now explain, it could affect the well-being of our entire presence in Asia. Britain’s possessions share a common border with China extending from Sinkiang to Yunnan yet we have no idea what goes on in the deeper reaches of the Middle Kingdom, disposition of garrisons, communications, roads, railways, that sort of thing. Even which mountain passes are kept cleared in the depths of winter.
   We know nothing of the interior except along stretches of the Yangtze nor even which Powers keen to rival the British Empire in reach and authority are up to no good there. His Majesty’s Government needs to know a great deal more about the situation from within. We know the Russian Tsar’s soldiers have been raiding and ransacking China’s provinces virtually at will. We haven’t the faintest inkling what the Japanese are up to, and not much about the Kaiser’s shenaniganseither.’
   Sir Edward stepped in.
   ‘Dr. Watson, England’s aim must be the containment of Petersburg and Berlin. Our bellicose friend, the German Kaiser, is spearheading a scramble for colonies everywhere. He seeks territorial aggrandisement no matter the cost. If his armies are to succeed, Germany must have access to strategic supplies far beyond those of Europe. We want to discover how China will react to his aggression. We may need to bolster her, guarantee her security.’
   ‘But surely our diplomats keep you informed?’ I responded.
   Haldane and Grey exchanged rueful looks.
   ‘We have diplomats, indeed,’ Haldane replied. ‘But few diplomats and traders leave their enclaves. They huddle together in Shanghai and other Treaty Ports. As a source of information they are of limited value. Nor are they especially welcome to the locals. The Chinese refer to them as Xi YangGuizi - western foreign devils.’
   The War Minister crossed to the wall-map. He pointed to England’s South coast.
   ‘Start your journey at the port of Dover as though taking an ordinary holiday. To muddy your tracks, put the word out you plan to spend the season in Ostend attending the motor race and the chess championship. You can say you have a posse of rich and famous patients awaiting your ministrations there, hence taking a medical bag and quantities of medicines. We can assure you every dispatch of a sensitive nature telegraphed back to London will be placed solely in Sir Edward’s and my hands.’
   As a former Army officer I had my own special interest in keeping to the savage route outlined for me by General Yuán. Ever since seeing a Han dynasty bronze statuette of a Gansu Flying Horse I had wanted to discover the homeland of the famed Ferghana horse. A revered myth proclaimed it a relative of the dragon. Indeed, all wonderful horses, such as the steed of the pious Hsüan-tsang which carried the sacred scriptures from India, were avatars of dragons. In antiquity the tallest horses owned by a Chinaman were called simply ‘dragons’, legendary creatures in Chinese folklore symbolizing potent and auspicious powers, particularly control over water, rainfall, typhoons, and floods.
   The War Minister left Duck Island Cottage first. A few minutes later the Foreign Secretary and I followed him out. We strolled along the edge of the lake. Two pelicans, the gift of a Russian Ambassador, and a crane with a wooden leg returned our gaze. Sir Edward, a known ornithologist, pointed an arm as though discussing the pelicans.
   ‘The scramble for Africa is almost over. The scramble for China has just begun. Certain Old China Hands - former tai-pans - will never be satisfied until we have made the Sacred Earth And Divine Land a part of the British Empire, a second India. They say Imperial China is going to pieces anyway. She is the sick woman of Asia who might crumble into dust at any moment. We English should slice up the melon. Every week memorials to this effect pour into my office from our manufacturing towns, from Huddersfield, Leeds, Liverpool, Bradford, Halifax. For them the extinction of China is a fact in the natural order of things. In the British order of things.’
   ‘Surely you can prevent any such moves...?’
   ‘Perhaps, but it won’t be easy. For half a century a fundamental clash of opinions has existed between the mercantile and the official British Government policy toward China. Our own citizenry in Guangzhou, Shanghai and Weihaiwei plus an assortment of missionaries, merchants, military, customs officers and journalists want to hitch themselves to a path of imperial glory. To them China is a landscape as much inviting exploitation as the American Wild West. I don’t believe you got as far as China in your army days. They are a singular people, quite different from the peoples of the Indiansub-Continent. We have traded with India since 1600. Underlying that relationship is a mutual respect - the Indian for the power of our guns and ships, the English for Mughal architecture and the kaleidoscope of colour. From the English language to cricket, the legacy of the British Raj will forever be a part of Indian identity.
   Not so China. Her scholars pride themselves on treating strangers from afar with courtesy and consideration but despite the politeness of your reception you will sense deep-rooted and far-reaching contempt for the barbarian. Behind our backs China accuses us, rightly enough, of concern solely for material profit or bargaining for our places in Heaven by rummaging around for Chinese souls. They say the British are audacious and treacherous, and that we know nothing of the‘Five Duties Of Man’: loyalty, piety, harmony, duty and ceremony, wisdom and good faith. They are convinced every Englishman carries crafty plans in his pocket threatening the Chinese Empire with the gravest danger.’
   My companion pulled out a pocket-watch. It was time for parting words.
   ‘We shall of course cover all your costs. You must take care, Dr. Watson. Under the influence of Russian nihilism a period of assassination has begun in China. Haldane was right to say you embark on a dangerous enterprise. England can only wish you well.’
   ‘I shall take care,’ I assured him. ‘After all, my time in Afghanistan was hardly...’
   ‘Quite so,’ Sir Edward broke in. ‘We must hope Commandant Yuán builds an army so powerful no more adventurist Powers will try their luck at gulping his country down their maw.’
   As though these words broadcast a signal, the six-cylinder Napier drew up at the bottom of the Charles Steps. The same smartly dressed chauffeur saluted even before the great horseless carriage came to a stop. Grey acknowledged the arrival and said,‘Dr. Watson, one last thing, what do you think of the expression The Yellow Peril or The Yellow Spectre?’
   I knew the swaggering Kaiser Wilhelm had coined the phrase‘yellow peril’ in the 1890s following a dream in which he saw the Buddha riding a dragon threatening Europe. England was not immune to such irrational fears.Punch magazine ran cartoons and poetic stanzas of impeccable offensiveness about high-ranking Chinese visitors:‘With his eyes aslant, and his pigtail’s braid/Coiled neatly round his close-shaved head...’
   I replied that Sherlock Holmes and I were well acquainted with the opium dens beyond the Tower of London and there were no more than a dozen such smoking establishments in the whole of Limehouse. As to a Trojan Horse,‘the enemy within’, I doubted if there were more than 800 Chinese in the whole of England.
   ‘Good,’ he returned. ‘Such nonsense. Three years ago when the Kaiser met King Edward in Kiel he ranted on about the Yellow Peril. He termed it ‘The greatest peril menacing Christendom and European civilization’.’* * *
   The chauffeur had stayed seated in the Napier with the engine running. He jumped out to hand me a letter accompanied by a small package. They were, he told me, from‘Mr. Holmes’. The writing seemed familiar though it was not Sherlock Holmes’s but his brother Mycroft’s. The envelope bore the imprimatur ‘The Diogenes Club’. The Diogenes was located in London’s famous ‘clubland’ - Pall Mall and St. James’s. To readers who are not conversant with this unusual and secretive gentlemen’s club, I can best offer Sherlock Holmes’s own words:
   ‘My brother Mycroft was one of the founders, and I have myself found it a very soothing atmosphere. It is named after Diogenes the Cynic. There are many men in London who, some from shyness, some from misanthropy, have no wish for the company of their fellows. Yet they are not averse to comfortable chairs and the latest journals andThe Times. It is for the convenience of these that the Diogenes Club was started. It now contains the most unsociable and unclubable men in town. No member is permitted to take the least notice of any other one. Save in the Stranger’s Room, under no circumstances is talking allowed. Three such offences render the talker liable to expulsion.’
   For those unfamiliar with Mycroft Holmes, it will serve to describe him in the terms I used inThe Sword of Osman:
   ‘The elder by seven years, Mycroft Holmes holds an important if ill-defined position in His Majesty’s Government. He dwells in the self-contained world of Whitehall, his office within an isosceles triangle bounded by Whitehall, Pall Mall and the Diogenes Club. His reach as puppet-master is immense.’
   I recorded Sherlock Holmes’s description of him inThe Bruce-Partington Plans:
   ‘Mycroft has the tidiest and most orderly brain, with the greatest capacity for storing facts, of any man living. The same great powers which I have turned to the detection of crime he has used for this particular business. The conclusions of every department are passed to him, and he is the central exchange, the clearinghouse, which makes out the balance.’* * *
   I placed Mycroft Holmes’s letter and the small package in my pocket and bid the chauffeur goodbye. I walked back to my medical practice by a circuitous route past Buckingham Palace. I would be returning to the furthest reaches of Asia after a gap of more than twenty-five years. The blue beret of the Army Medical Department was tucked away in my old tin-box, the cap badge with the regimental mottoIn Arduis Fidelis still attached.
   En route I stood a while on the Serpentine Bridge contemplating the task ahead, staring down at the placid waters of the boating lake, the surface covered with the eager heads of a hundred waterfowl looking up to me for bits of bread - Mandarin, Gadwall, Shoveler, Pochard, Tufted and Ruddy, and Little and Great Crested Grebes. I murmured the words of Rudyard Kipling’sKim:‘Now I shall go far and far into the North, playing the Great Game...’
   Alas, those who helped Kim were long up in the Great Beyond - Mahbub Ali, Ghilzai Pashtun, horse trader and spy for the British, Lispeth, the Woman of Shamlegh, Huneefa, the sorceress who performed a devil invocation ritual to protect Kim. Nevertheless I would cross Kim’s path along the Great Trunk Road, and seek out the River of the Arrow.
   At the Wigmore Street Post-Office I sent a telegram to Sherlock Holmes suggesting I pop down to his farmstead. I didn’t want to set off for what could be my last journey on earth without some sort of farewell. I would refrain from mentioning my impending adventure. I would merely say I had newspaper clippings for him.
   A package from the War Department awaited me at the surgery. It contained a T-square, a pair of dividers, a military protractor, a calliper-gauge, a supply of cartridge paper, and a fine Gibbin’s horseman’s folding Combination knife with saw blade, corkscrew, a hoof pick, a pair of tweezers and a pin. At the earliest quiet moment, I reached into a pocket and took out Mycroft Holmes’s sealed envelope and the accompanying small packet.
   The letter commenced,
   ‘The Diogenes November 6, 1906
   Private& Confidential.
   My dear Dr. Watson - You have accepted General Yuán’s invitation to help form a National Medical Corps. To ensure absolute secrecy we have opened a private account for you at Parr’s Bank rather than contacting your own bank, Cox’s. In all Capital cities on your route you will be able to obtain whatever funds you need. You might start by calling on a few pocketsful of Spanish colonial Mexican dollars. They are widely in use in China.
   When you reach the Forbidden City at the end of your journey you will be introduced to Cixi, thehuang taihou. Do not be taken in by the unassuming title‘Empress Dowager’ as though she lives tucked away in a small dowager house on the edge of the estate. She is the powerhouse of the Middle Kingdom, the dynamic brain. By her own intelligence and the force of her will she has triumphed over conspiracies, poisonings, arbitrary and whimsical executions, torture and Palace intrigues. All this in a culture which despises the feminine and offers women nothing but contempt.
   Once you set off, communication with England will necessarily be slow and increasingly open to misuse. As the capital of our own vast Empire, London is the rumour-monger city of the world. Even I cannot take a step in the tangle-web of Whitehall without tripping over some other nation’s spies. For our peace of mind about your well-being, please route all communications - even personal ones addressed to my brother Sherlock - through the Diplomatic pouches to the Political& Secret Department (L/P&S/20) at the India Office. That will ensure they find their way free from prying eyes!
   I hope you will permit me to offer thoughts gleaned from three decades of contact with experienced China Hands, all free trade and Armstrong guns. The species spends a great deal of time on leave at the Diogenes Club.
   As you have already been warned, in his heart the Oriental despises the European. Do not expect to be greeted with open arms. Every inhabitant of the eighteen provinces believes China is the centre of civilization and power, his language and customs the only ones worthy of attention from native Chinaman and‘barbarian’ alike. Few Englishman visit fabled Cathay with any other intent than to convert, trade, rule or fight. From coolie to Mandarin to the ruling High Court every Chinese actively dislikes our soldiers, our sailors, our missionaries, our officials, our merchants, our manner and our style. In return we accuse China of ineradicable Oriental ingratitude.
   Regarding your route to Kashgar, I see you are taking a quiet way to cross the English Channel to Ostend, then Brussels, Berlin, Warsaw, Moscow, Rostov. Rostov to Petrovsk on the Caspian Sea and across to Baku. Krasnovodsk and Bukhara. Then Samarkand. I know this because my‘spies’ at the Royal Geographical Society noted your marginal scribbles on their maps (marks now removed).So far so good. After Samarkand, even the Society’s maps are out of date by some decades.
   I imagine it’ll seem very much like your Afghan days. A stretch of the trans-Caspian railway to Andijan is the last you’ll see of civilized transport. From then on it will become varied, increasingly horse and carriage, or pony, or for the high passes, yak. After that it’s tarantass or post-cart to Osh. If you make it over the Thian-Shan mountains alive, you arrive at Kashgar, the great Back-of-Beyond, one of the least-visited places on earth and for good reason. To the east stretches Taklimakan Shamo, a desert so hazardous that caravans of a hundred camels have been known to disappear with not a skeleton - human or pack-animal - to show they passed that way. Only the cargoes remain in the sands - iron, ceramics, cinnamon bark and lacquer. The immense mountain ranges of Tian Shan and Pamir cut the miserable town off from the north and west - and to the south lies the Karakoram, the most heavily glaciated part of the world outside the polar regions, home to the highest concentration of peaks over 25,000 feet anywhere on earth. It includes Mt. Godwin Austen (in the Balti dialect, Chhogori), the ‘Savage Mountain’. At 28,251 feet it is the largest pyramid on earth. If you carry the appropriate instruments perhaps you can check whether the accuracy of this height still stands.
   A word if I may on Yuán Shì-kai who is both a General and holder of a top political post, the Viceroy of Chihli. By his strategic disposition Yuán completely controls all approaches to the Capital. The ultimate purpose of the equipped and disciplined troops is locked in his breast. Consequently we know little of hisambitious military plans. Where will the guns be deployed? Will they be pointed towards rebellious elements inside China herself? Or face the Treaty Ports, including Hong Kong?
   The Commandant is a little in love with plenitude and panoply but without question he is to be taken with the utmost seriousness. We believe him to be the most powerful individual in China after the Empress Dowager herself. Foreigners can be tricked by Yuán’s affability. They retire from his yamen (headquarters) with the idea they have deeply impressed him with the object of their interest.
   As the Secretary of State for War informed you, we know little of events in China outside Peking and the Treaty Ports. Our agents in the German Rhineland report a burst of activity in the Krupp armaments factories with China in mind. Large crates roll out after dark, designated for Hankow, Mukden, Hangchow and Tientsin. We believe they contain dozens of an as-yet secret 75 millimetre field-gun, and hundreds of Krupp .313 machine-guns. Throw in a few quick-firing field guns from Austria-Hungary’s Škoda Works, complete with carriages, ammunition waggons and limbers, it all adds up to a formidable force.
   I have occupied your attention too long already except to add there is a powerful school of thought in England which wishes our Foreign Secretary would pay far more attention to the Chinese partridge than the French sparrow. They hold that great empires like Britain’s must continue to expand or, like stars at the end of their life, implode. In their eyes China would be no more difficult to administer than India has proven to be.’
   ‘Yours ever truly’ followed.
   I folded Mycroft’s letter back into its envelope, turning to the package, and stripped off the covering paper. It contained a first printing of Lewis Carroll’sAlice in Wonderland. In green ink on the fly, without comment, Mycroft had transcribedThe Spider and the Fly, a poem well remembered from my childhood.‘Will you walk into my parlour?” said the Spider to the Fly,‘Tis the prettiest little parlour that ever you did spy;The way into my parlour is up a winding stair,And I’ve a many curious things to shew when you are there.”“Oh no, no,” said the little Fly, “to ask me is in vain,For who goes up your winding stair-can ne’er come down again.”
   ‘Take care’ was valued advice, especially coming from Mycroft Holmes, the greatest spider of them all, tucked in the silken den, The Diogenes Club. In a few weeks I would be in Cathay, a fabulous land ruled by one of the most capricious, debauched and cruel courts ever recorded in history, Orient or Occident, where flattery and charm were not pleasantries but deadly traps, the Imperial throne at the centre, a pole star about which the whole world revolved.
   Chapter IV
   I Ready Myself for China
   The days passed quickly. My journey was to commence in under a week. After a quiet dinner at the nearby Great Western Royal Hotel I clambered up to the box-room where my tackle and clothing from Army days were stored in moth-proof trunks.‘The East India Vade-Mecum’, my first guidebook for military service in India, lay among the memorabilia. It counselled voyagers to take ‘a washbasin, a chamber pot, a pound of tea, five pounds of sugar, soap that could be dissolved in salt water and both a horsehair and a feather pillow’ -the latter for cold weather, the former for warmer climes. As on that first adventure, I would take an assortment of emergency drugs, a few diagnostic instruments and a small leather-cased amputation kit.
   I considered my wardrobe. For the rough terrain en route to northern China a trip to tailors Gieves and Hawkes would be in order. On each of my visits a now-elderly cutter reminded me that Gieves tailored the uniform Admiral Lord Nelson wore when he died aboardHMS Victoryat the Battle of Trafalgar. And that when Henry Mortimer Stanley came across David Livingstone in the town of Ujiji on the shores of Lake Tanganyika on 27 October 1871, the former was clad head to toe in Hawkes& Co. dress. Even Livingstone wore a Gieves Consular hat.
   My formal wear too was in severe need of an update. I would order a bespoke frock coat, grey, with silk-faced lapels, and perhaps a matching grey silk cravat. My existing waterproof horse-hide shooting boots had seen better days and needed replacing.
   Food would be a problem on the long route. Mycroft Holmes could send stores to way-stations ahead - a few dozen 2lb lever-top canisters of the‘McDoddie’, preserved carrots, celery, French beans, Julienne, leeks etc. (‘cannot be distinguished from the fresh’) described favourably inThe Lancet as maintaining the true flavours and, as important, the peculiar chemical conditions of the food constituents. An electric torch would be convenient but obtaining fresh charges an impossibility. Instead a couple of Italian Alpine Club lanterns and a ball of spare wick, a gallon of oil of the best quality and wax tapers would serve nearly as well. Plus a 3-draw spyglass in a leather case. For compiling notes I would take my favourite stylographic pen and a stone bottle of Draper’s dichroic ink. By contrast with writing-ink, the latter is quite unaffected by wet.
   I dropped in at Salmon& Gluckstein of Oxford Street (‘Largest and Cheapest Tobacconists in the World’) to purchase a half-dozen tins of J&H Wilson No. 1 Top Mill snuff, a few Churchwarden clay pipes, and a box of Trichinopoly cigars manufactured from tobacco grown near the town of Dindigul.* * *
   That evening I went to my work-table and took out a top-breaker six shot revolver in .476 calibre with a bird’s head grip and two spare barrels. New rounds can be reloaded quickly. Given Mycroft’s and the Chinese General’s dire warnings I would include the bespoke shotgun inherited from my father, after taking it in the morning to Athol Purdey for servicing. A stroll back to the Army& Navy Stores for a supply of Spartan sauce and a few tins of preserved soup, followed by a meal at The Holborn would complete a pleasant day.
   An imperious knocking called me to the side-door. A messenger-boy handed me a telegram and pushed a palm at me for a gratuity.
   ‘Mister,’ he said, pointing at the sturdy revolver in my hand, ‘my grandfather has one just like that. Webley-Pryse, ain’t it? He spends his evenings cleaning it with a rag too.’
   I opened the telegram. It was from Holmes.
   ‘Dear Watson,’ it read. ‘Inconvenient for you to visit right now. Shall explain at some other time.
   Yrs S.H.’
   P.S. Am busy designing a single-shot pistol. Prototype as below. In your judgement what calibre would be best? .25 or perhaps .22 (if .22, short or long?).
 [Картинка: i_003.jpg] 

   I tossed the telegram into a waste-paper basket. At least I would avoid inadvertently giving the game away. I would reply later, recommending the .25 calibre.
   Another rat-tat at the same side-entrance a half-hour later presaged the delivery of a weighty parcel from Foyles,‘the world’s first purpose-built bookshop’. It contained Major C.F. Close’s text-book of topographical and geographical surveying. In case I needed to pass myself off as an archaeologist, I ordered the account of excavations at Anau in the foothills of the Kopet Dagh. Ostentatiously tucked under an arm it could be useful for averting suspicious eyes as I passed through borders between one wild region to the next.* * *
   The day of departure arrived. A two-horse Hansom carriage dropped me at the boat-train platform for Southampton. The same high excitement coursed through me as thirty years earlier when I set off from exactly the same platform to catch a troop-ship for Bombay to begin my life as an Army doctor. This time a second Hansom accompanied me with the overflow of baggage. The elderly porter ran an inquiring eye over the assemblage of trunks, bags, leather valises, battered tin-box and packages crowding the platform at my feet. He took off his cap, scratched his head, peered at me and asked waggishly,‘Away for the entire weekend, are we, Sir?’
   I handed him a half-crown - a handsome gratuity–and advised him to keep it to place on a horse called The White Knight at the next Ascot Gold Cup.
   Exhaust steam vented upwards into the atmosphere through the monster chimney, giving rise to the familiar chuffing sound at the start of many an adventure. The seat opposite me was vacant, empty of a Sherlock Holmes clad in his Poshteen Long Coat with its many flaps and pockets. I wondered what Holmes would make of it when eventually I was able to let him into the secret, that for once I was the principal player in the mission - and at the request of His Majesty’s Government. For the first time since my India and Afghanistan days I would not be the side-kick or, as a rude American described me - in print - ‘the great Detective’s Performing Flea’.
   The platform guard waved his green flag with a flourish worthy of a colour guard. I was about to slam the carriage door when the chauffeur who had delivered the invitation from Grey and Haldane came running down the platform and thrust a package into my arms. He fell back as the train pulled away, hand still held to forehead in a salute.
   The parcel, the size of about half a dozen books, contained a curious box-like apparatus. An accompanying note from Mycroft Holmes wished me well and offered an explanation. A sub-committee of the Committee of Imperial Defence would soon be formed to investigate the potential of flying machines for reconnaissance and artillery observation. A Pole by the name of Prószyński had approached them with the ‘Aeroscope’, a new hand-held film camera he planned to patent and manufacture in Britain. An ingenious compressed-air system made it possible to film in the most difficult circumstances, from airplanes and for other military purposes.
   Before considering ordering some hundreds of Aeroscopes the War Office wanted it tried out in precisely the harsh conditions I would meet on my journey to Peking. The device came with several 400-foot reels of 35mm film and a small bicycle pump to compress the air. It was, Mycroft advised me in parenthesis, the only Aeroscope at present in existence. I placed the device in my tin-box alongside my favourite camera, the Lizars 1/4 Plate Challenge Model E.
   I settled back uneasily. An hour with Sir Ernest Satow, the recent British Envoy in Peking, at his quintessential English gentleman’s club, The Travellers, had left me with deep misgivings.
   ‘Take the Yellow River as a metaphor,’ were Satow’s cautionary words as he saw me to the street. ‘Unfathomable to every Western investigator the Chinese unquestionably are. Treacherous they may well be. One may as well seek to peer into the muddy waters eddying around the piles of the ... (he mentioned some bridge over the Yangtze River) as hope to penetrate the mystery behind the eyes of the Chinese people.’
   He took my hand in a farewell shake.
   ‘Remember, Watson, the man who presumes to interpret the Chinese mind is doomed, his theories snares, his conclusions perilous.’
   Those final words of Satow’s would stay with me for a very long time.* * *
   Mid-September. The start of my travel diary though so far nothing to report. The waterway leading to the uttermost ends of the earth, the English Channel, came and went. So too Brussels and Berlin. And Moscow. Am crossing immense stretches of the Russian plain that saw some of the last horse-mounted nomadic tribes of Europe, the Tatar of the Golden Horde. Now the hardest part lies not too far ahead.
   October 4. Today is the fourteenth day sailing down the River Irtish in a shallow-draft steamer to the Russian outpost of Zaissan. The steamer leaks badly. Every morning the Captain pays obeisance to the God of the Rivers, before we start. The crew and half the passengers join in with him. The other half of the crew and passengers spend their time in the bilges removing the water and plugging new leaks. The journey is giving me time to start recording my thoughts for the lesser of my assignments, China’s first New Army Field Service Pocket Book. I plan to include concise information on every conceivable contingency faced by the serving officer - from subaltern on the furthermost Frontier to staff officer at Headquarters. I shall start with advice for moving badly-sited garrisons to more favourable ground, reminding the engineers that no natural or artificial strength of position will of itself compensate for loss of initiative when an enemy has time and liberty to manœuvre. The choice of a position and its preparation must be made with a view to economizing the power expended ondefence in order to increase the power available foroffence. That should be clear enough.
   With the world of aviation growing apace I plan an appendix on Aeronautical terms and their meaning, e.g.‘Aeroplane’ - a flying machine heavier than air. ‘Fuselage’ - the outrigger connecting the main planes with the tail-piece or elevator. ‘Nacelle’, the enclosed shelter for the pilot of a biplane. Etc.
   At Sir Edward Grey’s personal request I have also started to keep notes on natural phenomena. When he and I parted at the Foreign Office he presented me with a manuscript copy of a work he plans to publish privately. It will be dedicated in memory of his deceased wife Dorothy under the titleA Cottage Book. My first note records a remarkable fact: I find myself in a region where there is hardly any autumn colouring. The leaves die green.
   October 6. Along with nearly all the passengers I have left the waterlogged steamer. Today on trek to a fort near the remote village of Mo-tao-chi I came across another curiosity of Nature, a gigantic conifer. The tree with its beautiful light-green ferny spring foliage may be completely unknown to European dendrologists. The village headman led me to the stand just as dawn broke. It reminded me of the California Redwood. I shall informally name it Dawn Redwood. I have collected a pocketful of seed to hand to the Royal Botanical Gardens on my return. If it turns out to be unknown to science perhaps the Society will name it Sequoiawatsoniana.
   Avery different curiosity of Nature leapt into my tent unbidden today, a big green grasshopper with a reddish head and a broad amber stripe all down its back. We had a good look at each other. It stayed a while before giving a prodigious spring back into its own world.
   October 10. Have wended my way to the settlement of Semipalatinsk on the Irtysh River, the‘Seven-Chambered City’, so named from a long-gone monastery with seven buildings. We have left Russia’s silver birch forests and the Ural mountains well behind, along with Russia’s influence. For the foreseeable future, large stretches of my journey must be undertaken on foot, eastward intothe eye of the rising sun, only the baggage carried by horse and mule. The pretty 10-rouble gold coins with Tsar Nicholas II on one side and the double headed eagle of the old Byzantine Empire on the other are now a rarity. My pocketful of Mexican dollars is coming in useful.
   I switched to a horse-drawn tarantass to reach the frontier at Bakhty and on through Urumchio to Chinese Turkestan. In such fashion I arrived at Turfan, the northern arm of the Silk Road. The heat in summer rises to 130° Fahrenheit, yet the temperature in winter is so bitter that vehicles can only be started by lighting fires under the engine sump, a risky procedure but regarded as routine.
   In their heyday, the Silk Roads were famous thoroughfares, the numerous oasis-villages producing wines, melons and grapes which, side by side with religions, ideas, technologies and languages, moved to and fro between the Imperial Court at Ch’ang-an and the Ottoman and European empires. A German archaeologist travelling with me said that by the 8th Century Hindus, Jews, Nestorians, Manichaeans, Zoroastrians lived in great cities along the routes. They traded in cosmetics, rare plants, falcons, parrots, the occasional lion, and that marvel, the ostrich, first known as ‘great sparrows’, latterly ‘camel birds’.
   Now the earthquake-scarred hills are destitute of all life, the cities gone.
   To the north lies the snow-capped Bogdo-Ola, the‘Mountain of God’, higher than anything in Europe. The division between arid desert and fertile land is as definite as that between shore and ocean. The first of the many garrisons I plan to inspect is only a matter of days ahead. The old warhorse in me sniffs the air and paws the ground. My mission can soon commence.
   3am. The extremes of temperature have no effect on the repulsive insect life. In addition to mosquitoes, sand flies, scorpions, fleas and lice there are two particularly unpleasant kinds of spider. One is the jumping kind with a body the size of a pullet’s egg. Its jaws produce a crunching sound. The other is smaller, black and hairy, and lives in a hole in the ground. These are to be avoided. Their bite, if not lethal, is extremely dangerous. At night, I am surrounded by huge Turfan cockroaches. Their big eyes stare down at you, their long feelers try to attack your eyes. Finding such a creature sitting on my nose on awaking is enough to make any man vomit uncontrollably.
   October 19. I am now the sole European in a small party camped the night by a large smugglers’ caravan of some forty transports laden with coral. The caravan is heading in the opposite direction to us, back, towards Irkeshtam and the Russian border. Coral is highly dutiable. We watched as the ponies were forced to swallow the coral. Once through the customs the donkeymen will delve through the ponies’ droppings to regain the smuggled lumps and beads.
   October 21. Our Kirghiz horses are superbly sure-footed. Even on ice they keep their feet. They climb over boulders like mountain goats, or go unhesitatingly down steep paths cut like staircases. In this part of the world the distance from one point to another on the outward journey may be quite different from a return journey over exactly the same path. I came across this interesting fact on hiring mules and coolies for a diversion from an overnight encampment to an isolated fort. The charge levied for the one mile outward journey was tripled for the return journey on exactly the same track. With a patronising look the Chinaman explained the outward journey was downhill and therefore easy, but the same journey back was up a steep gradient and not at all easy. On level ground the distance of one statute mile equals just short of 3‘li’. By contrast, up very steep roads the same statute mile is called 15 li, and charged accordingly. A stretch down a river like the Yangtze might cost 90 li one way and the return journey up-stream a third more.
   Late this afternoon our small and disparate band of travellers reached the end of a long valley. Leeches are plentiful on the lower slopes. Anticipating the arrival of monied‘feranghis’ the local people readied several calico tents for us in the long, wet grass. They were armed with repeating rifles to defend their paying guests. We were supplied with various kinds of game hunted with falcons, mainly beautiful little red-legged partridges which run across the hillsides, and a large bird like Scotland’s capercailzie. The fare provided welcome relief from days of scraggy chickens or boiled mutton without salt, or the tins of sausages and soups brought from London.
   October 23. At sun-up I joined a train crossing rough territory for about 50 miles in the right direction. A short way into the journey it pulled into a small station to replenish water and coal. Word got out among the two or three Europeans aboard that we would be there long enough to stretch our legs.
   I stepped on to the platform and before long a most amusing sight presented itself. Coming at a lick down the dusty road towards the station entrance was a wheelbarrow covered with yellow silk, pushed by a panting porter and preceded at a trot by several coolies waving yellow banners. Leaning out of the wheelbarrow at a dangerous angle was an old man adorned with the longest white beard imaginable, so long it was in danger of catching the legs of the banner-bearers and upending them.
   The soothsayer’s flamboyant clothing was a curious mix of Manchu and Han attire, the flowing sleeves displaying the depredations of moths and their caterpillars which had eaten out some considerable patches. His head was shaved except for the long pigtail known as a queue. The eyeglasses clamped on the Chinaman’s pock-marked face were the thickest I have ever seen, slices of smoky quartz crystal polished until translucent. They completely enclosed his eyes, like Victorian railway glasses worn in open carriages to protect the eye from funnel smoke and sparks.
   Two further coolies at the unusual transport’s sides held up a red woollen cloth umbrella in a cylindrical shape, like the half of a drum. A retainer brought up the rear, carrying his master’s water-tobacco pouch, a small hat and a clothes bag.
   The porter brought the wheelbarrow and its cargo on to the platform at a run and dropped it thankfully, sweating heavily. Out stepped the theatrical fortune-teller. The banners were held up in a semi-circle behind him by the attendants. Around his waist was a silken belt with dragon and tiger hooks of a white stone from which were suspended a watch, a fan, an ornamental purse and a small knife. I was astonished to see he was afflicted with the hereditary condition known as thumb polydactyly, both hands having full duplication of the thumb including the first metacarpal. Many inhabitants, whether Manchu or native Chinese, have a deformation of some sort, a goitre, a strange squint, an unsightly dinge in the forehead, even one side of the face completely different from the other. His smile displayed another hereditary affliction: four or five of his teeth ran together in one piece, like a bone.
   The spectacles made it difficult to place from which part of China his ancestry originated. The predominant Han have flat faces and noses. People originating in the north are often heavier and taller with broader shoulders, lighter skin, smaller eyes and more pointed noses than the people south of the Huai River–Qin Mountains line.
   At my side, delighted with this display, was a fellow European, the same German archaeologist. He had good knowledge of Mandarin, and more to the point, Chinese logograms.
   To my horror the fortune-teller singled me out. His voice was unexpectedly shrill.
   ‘I am your humble servant from Chin-Hwa,’ my new companion translated, adopting the same sing-song voice.
   The German pointed at the fortune-teller and asked,‘Surely, Doctor Watson, you aren’t going to lose the chance to know your future - and for so little expense!’
   He translated the logograms -
   Foretelling any single event . . . . . . . . 8 cash
   Foretelling any single event with joss-stick. . . . . . .16 cash
   Telling a fortune . . . . . . . . . 28 cash
   Telling a fortune in detail . . . . . . . 50 cash
   Telling a fortune by reading the stars . . . 50 cash
   Fixing the marriage day . . . . . . . fee according to agreement
   To the general satisfaction of other passengers on the platform I succumbed. I opted for‘fate calculating’. The fortune-teller asked for the hour of my birth, the day, the month and the year (to which for some reason he added a further year). The archaeologist acted as language interpreter. He also explained the seer was writing my answers down in particular characters to express times and seasons. From the combinations of these and a careful estimate of the proportions in which the elements gold, wood, water, fire, and earth made their appearance he would make his predictions.
   In return for a‘shoe’ (a string of 50 cash) I received the following: ‘Your present lustrum is not a fortunate one; but it has nearly expired, and better days are at hand. Beware the odd months of this year: you will meet with some dangers and slight losses. Danger can be ameliorated by offerings at the Temple of Boundless Mercy. Two male phoenixes will be accorded to you. Fruit cannot thrive in the winter (he had arbitrarily decided to place my birthday in the 12th moon). Conflicting elements oppose: towards life’s close prepare for trials. Wealth is beyond your grasp; but nature has marked you outto fill a lofty place.’
   Certainly the‘Wealth is beyond your grasp’ had the ring of truth. At the last prediction, ‘nature has marked you out to fill a lofty place’, the considerable number of locals and the station-master gaping at the proceedings broke into raucous laughter and hoorays. The fortune-teller’s retainer ran around handing out visiting cards.
   The train’s whistle gave a warning blast. With a wide smile exposing the fused front teeth the soothsayer took the 50 cash and waved me into my compartment, repeatedly bowing, chattering in Chinese (Mandarin with a northern rhotic accent, with a few archaic, out-of-context English words thrown in, according to my knowledgeable German fellow traveller).
   As the Chinaman leaned forward to close the carriage door I caught a split-second sight of a banner through the very edge of one of his glass lenses. Curiously, there was no magnification, reduction or compensating distortion. The appearance of the logograms puzzled me. They were quite unchanged.
   Chapter V
   I Reach Kashgar Where I Have an Unexpected Encounter
   October 24. Our caravan halted near a monument carrying inscriptions in the four official languages of the Middle Kingdom - Manchu, Chinese, Mongolian and Tibetan - the equivalent of the famed Egyptian Rosetta stone. I caught my first sight of the Chinese Empire’s Yellow Dragon flag, fluttering beside the monument, an azure dragon on a plain yellow field, with the red sun of the three-legged crow in the upper left corner.
   I reflected on empires. In time even England’s Imperial moment will come to an end. Colonials from Asia and Africa will return to spa towns like Tunbridge Wells, archaic personages with waxed moustaches and silky parasols, lamenting long, leisurely days on well-watered lawns under the jacaranda trees, forever past.
   October 28. Last night, after three nights sleeping on the ground next to the pack-animals, we arrived at an inn. There was no lighting. The tripod of the Aeroscope camera made do for a candle-stand and clothes-horse for hanging boots and clothes out of the way of the rats. Food at inns is mostly a monotonous offering of rice mixed with mutton-fat or mutton-fat mixed with rice so the meal of curry, rice and tea or‘tanwo kuo’ - poached eggs in chicken broth - was welcome. Astoundingly, I was even offered (and purchased) a fine bottle of Veuve Cliquot Ponsardin left behind by an archaeology expedition. It came to the rickety table cooled as I had requested, in a piece of wet felt.
   A traveller assuming I was an archaeologist on the way to Buddhist temple sites at Bezeklik five or six marches ahead advised me to mount an armed guard at night if the party camped in a certain horse-shoe gorge, not against human marauders but wolves. Early this week the remains of a twelve-year-old Krakhoja girl had been discovered there. She ran into the desert to reach another oasis after being betrothed against her will to a man of eighty. All that was found were blood-stained fragments of clothing and her long top-boots. The legs were still inside.
   London is an arduous six weeks behind me. I turn in early. Tomorrow I reach Kashgar.
   2.20am. Reminiscent of my army days on the North-West Frontier, the silence of the night is being broken by a symphony of pigs grunting, rats or mice gnawing, crickets chirping, beetles rustling in the straw. I must lie here until the sound of other humans tells me it’s time to rise for a new day.
   October 29. Arrived at Kashgar. The Union flag fluttering over the tiny British Consulate-General signals the last outpost of the British Empire between India and the North Pole. Our man here, George Macartney, is our cat in residence in the Opéra bouffe we call ‘The Great Game’. He monitors and reports back every move by the Tsarist mice to his chiefs at the British Foreign Office.
   Mycroft Holmes’s description does Kashgar ‘justice’. It is a small, remote, mud-walled frontier town in the great back-of-beyond, once serving as a trading post and strategically important city on the Silk Road between China, the Middle East, and Europe, but has long since fallen into decay. Two nights in this township will be sufficient. Then I shall press on.
   My transport took me along narrow, filthy streets to meet Macartney at the Consulate-General, the mud puddled by the water slopped over from the pails of donkeys and water carriers. It was slow going pushing our way through the throng of people, some pedestrians, others on two-humped Bactrian camels or horses, the animals so overloaded with fodder or cotton bales that only four hoofs and a nose could be seen. The camel bells sound like the peal of church bells on the Sunday mornings of my youth which signalled the end of play in the garden and the start of the short solemn walk to the family pew in my Sunday suit.
   News of my arrival in Kashgar had sped ahead of me. Macartney was waiting for me outside the building. We shook hands. He handed me a package delivered, he told me,‘by an officer of the New Army’.
   ‘I’ve been guarding it with my life,’ he said.
   Then as though pulling a magician’s rabbit from a hat, he pointed to the open front door and said, ‘Dr. Watson, you might like to be reunited with one of your oldest friends’.
   A figure stepped out from the shadows. It was the fortune-teller who removed 50 cash from me for an entirely unlikely account of my future, the same thick, tinted eyeglasses, pock-marked face, the same fingernails of prodigious length. In my astoundment I failed to notice a marked change in the creature before me. There was no sign of the fused front teeth, nor the thumb polydactyly. Now each hand had just the one.
   ‘I say, Macartney,’ I protested, staring at the stranger, ‘that’s a bit strong! I don’t think I can call this fellow one of my oldest friends, far from it!’
   ‘Can’t you, Doubting Thomas?’ the Chinaman asked in a voice utterly familiar to me. ‘Surely Iamone of your oldest friends!’
   The voice was that of Sherlock Holmes. The glasses came off, revealing the familiar, deepset grey eyes of my old comrade-in-arms.
   Chuckling at my initial dismay, Holmes switched back to the high-pitched voice of the soothsayer who had so skilfully relieved me of my money:‘So you will be beware the odd months of this year, won’t you! You will meet with some dangers and slight losses, though in the fullness of time two male phoenixes will be accorded to you’.* * *
   Within minutes Holmes and I were seated over a cup of tea.
   ‘How did you discover I was on my way to Kashgar?’ I asked.
   ‘I would like to say I snuffed the air like a bloodhound and caught a whiff as you stood aboard the ferry from Dover to Ostend but the fact is one afternoon in July I had an unexpected visitor. A man you may recognise if I describe his dress.’
   Over puffs of his favourite briar pipe he continued,‘He wore a long silk coat embroidered front and back with a white crane.’
   ‘A long silk coat...with a white crane?’ I parroted.
   Holmes nodded.
   ‘There’s only one man I know who fits that description,’ I replied. ‘A Chinese General by the name of Yuán!’
   ‘The very same. I was putting out some lemongrass oil in a box with an old dark comb to encourage my overcrowded bees to abscond from their hive when there he was, on my verandah. As though he had popped up from beneath the soil. He started with, ‘Sir Sherlock, I’ve come to you for advice. I heard from Grand Duke ______ how you saved him in the _________ scandal. I also know of you because your famed Scotland Yard calls you Europe’s most supremely skilful investigator’ - to which I responded, ‘Well then, it’s true even Scotland Yard gets things right once in a while’. I said, ‘I beg you to enter my humble abode where you can draw up a chair and favour me with the details’.
   ‘It is no ordinary case,’ the man emphasized as we entered the house. ‘No cases which come to me are ordinary,’ I assured him. Then the General told me he was exercised by worrying rumours swirling around the Forbidden City.’
   ‘And those rumours, Holmes?’ I asked with keen interest.
   ‘An impending assassination.’
   ‘Directed at?’
   ‘Either the Empress Dowager Cixi or the Kuang-hsü Emperor, he couldn’t be sure which. He asked if I would travel to the Forbidden City to investigate. He feared the murder of either could trigger a civil war and a speedy intervention by a foreign power. Given the parlous state of his Army any such excuse for invasion should be eliminated with all possible urgency. He had no need to fear England’s intervention. Edward Grey had given his word that we had no intention of expanding our Indian Territories though even Sir Edward was far from convinced Berlin, St. Petersburg or Paris - Tokyo even - would be so restrained.’
   ‘From your presence here in Kashgar, Holmes, I deduce you accepted the offer?’
   ‘With two stipulations,’ he replied.
   ‘The first?’
   ‘I should have six weeks to learn Mandarin.’
   ‘And the second?’
   The deep-set grey eyes turned on me.
   ‘That my old comrade-in-arms should be offered his own remit such that we should come together in Peking. Dr. Watson is, I told the General, the man I trust more than any other on earth. I suggested your medical skills from the Hindu Kush and Afghanistan could be of value to his army. Within minutes he came up with a plan. He would commission you to help establish the first Imperial Army Medical company. He warned it would expose you to great danger. Would that be acceptable? I said you have the pluck of a hundred bulldogs. He pointed out the travel to a score of isolated garrisons would bearduous for a man half your age. At that I stretched the truth a little and said you were among the fittest men in England. ‘Done!’ he said.
   In turn the General suggested I could visit China officially as an expert advisor on reforms of China’s criminal justice system. He told how courts achieve verdicts by torture, how the accused is made to kneel on red-hot irons, how they wind and twist his arms around a pole while being beaten with a five-foot long bamboo club or a half-inch thick snakeskin whip, or he suffers the excruciating pain of the thumb-screw. If the accused foolishly persists in declaring his innocence, they just increase the torture. The General said the Imperial High Court understands this way of dispensing justice is no longer viable. More to the point, the barbarity of the practice has become another likely excuse for outside Powers to invade.’
   I spluttered,‘But how on earth did you... I mean, meeting up at that railway stop!’
   ‘I knew you would encounter heavy going. I calculated I had time to take Mandarin lessons and continue them aboard a fast ship to India. On disembarking I caught the mail train to Rawalpindi, then a bumpy ride by cart through your old Army stamping grounds to Srinagar, and on to Gilgit, Hunza andSarikol, and finally on the backs of coolies over mountain tracks too bad even for ponies.’
   ‘But why the disguise?’ I asked. ‘It was a formidable performance even by your standards!’
   I knew from long experience Holmes was a master of the false appearance.‘A good many of the criminal classes begin to know me,’ he told me early in our friendship, ‘especially since you took to publishing some of my cases. I can only go on the war-path under some simple disguise.’
   Disguising a face with make-up for the theatre or other in-door setting is far from difficult. It was Holmes’s masteryin ordinary daylight which marked him out as exceptional. As he remarked,‘Off the stage you can’t get by with a celluloid nose or a tie-on beard.’ It was amazing to see how with a little paste he could alter the shape of the nose and the whole character of his face. His real genius lay not solely in the use of wigs and make-up but in supporting that skill with a suitable manner and voice. At least twice he fooled me (a medical doctor) with his workhouse cough, playing an impoverished old man.
   He could probably impersonate a minister of the Church of England better than most genuine ministers except that under English Law it was a criminal offence. Dressing as a minister of a cult different from the official religion of the State, such as his amiable and simple-minded Nonconformist clergyman, was not.
   ‘But knowing how to find me,’ I continued. ‘How...?’
   ‘Cathay is not like Africa,’ came my comrade’s response. ‘Henry Morton Stanley was directed village by village to his encounter with Dr. Livingstone at Lake Tanganyika. But here in these turbulent and suspicious regions no local would supply an outsider with information, even though it was clear to me everyone in the whole of the northern region, including St. Petersburg’s and Berlin’s spies, knew exactly where you were and precisely what you’re up to. If I had not assumed the disguise of a Chinese fortune-teller I would have found it impossible to track you down. The locals would deliberately attempt to mislead me, such is their contempt for us long-noses. When I disguised myself and told them I planned to charge you 50 taels to tell you ‘your present lustrum is not a fortunate one but it has nearly expired and better days are at hand’, they split their sides laughingat my little joke. ‘Go to that railway station, he’ll soon be there,’ they said.’
   He stood up.
   ‘From what you tell me, both our missions are urgent. Yours requires another three or four weeks. Mine calls for me to get to the Forbidden City as fast as I can. We can join up there. By then I shall have got my feet firmly under the table.’* * *
   I went to my room and opened the package. It contained my orders from Yuán. From Kashgar I was to head towards the Yili Garrison in Xinjiang Province, keeping an eye open for bandits. After that, I was to work my way to the Manchu military garrison camps at Ningguta in the Hurka River valley where I would meet up with the General and Staff officers. Ningguta was once guarded by the six grandsons of Möngke Temür. These memories mattered, it seemed. At least to the ruling Manchu.
   At lunchtime I walked to Mohammedan City, the old part of Kashgar, the location of the Chinese Civil Administration. With General Yuán’s letter of introduction I obtained the permits needed to continue my journey.* * *
   Later that evening I went to Holmes’s room. He had finished packing. His hand reached into a cavernous pocket of the Poshteen Long Coat to retrieve several wooden disks which he placed in a pile on a table.
   He jabbed at the disks.
   ‘Take a close look, Watson,’ he said, as jubilant as Little Jack Horner pulling out a plum.
   The discs were beautifully crafted from alder, smooth and lacquered, the largest about 6 inches in diameter. Engraved around its circumference were the letters A to Z. The other disks were in descending order of size. Instead of letters, double-digit numerals were cut into their outside edges, from 01 and 02 up to 99 and a double-zero.
   ‘What are they for?’ I enquired.
   Holmes took the largest disk and began slotting the others one on top of the other, up to the smallest disk etched with the final run of numbers.
   ‘A machine to produce an unbreakable cipher,’ came the gleeful reply.
   His index finger began to spin the disks.
   ‘I’ve not been wasting my time on my bee-farm, I can assure you, my friend. Early this year the Mexican Army - for a substantial fee, please note - asked me to develop a mechanical coding machine which even the most brilliant mathematician would be unable to break, not even one with all the resources of their much-feared neighbour, ‘the Giant to the North’.’
   He pointed.
   ‘This is it.’
   He had ensured complete secrecy by commissioning different engravers unknown to each other.
   ‘There are only two complete wheels in the world right now, this one and the other I have lodged with my brother Mycroft.’
   He looked up, his eyes aglow with satisfaction.
   ‘I challenge anyone alive to break the ciphered messages we concoct using this device.’
   ‘It’s certainly a beautiful object, Holmes,’ I said warily, ‘but how does it work?’
   ‘It uses numbers to represent one letter.’
   ‘But haven’t such ciphers have been around for thousands of years?’
   ‘They have - but in seconds I can set this for over 450,000 unique key codes.’
   He pushed the assembled device towards me.
   ‘Those rotating disks convert any letter of the alphabet on the lowest disk into double-digit numbers on the upper discs, based on an agreed key. Once I let Mycroft know the key, any sequence of numbers in the message will quickly point to ordinary letters of the alphabet on his wheel. It’s completely impossible without this exact machine and whichever key we choose each time for anyone to decipher a message.’* * *
   Holmes left Kashgar before I awoke, taking the direct road to Peking. I would begin a zig-zag route to the Capital via the garrisons. We would meet up in about a month’s time. At the heart of the Forbidden City.
   ‘By then,’ I told him, ‘human blood-hound that you are, I expect you to have sniffed out any so-called plot against the Kuang-hsü Emperor or Cixi.’
   Over breakfast, Macartney briefed me on my journey ahead.
   ‘The whole of the north of China is a power vacuum. Marauding bands of up to 250 Chinese and Mongol brigands roam far and wide, sometimes stopping for a few hours, other times only for a few minutes to avoid attack by the authorities. In many cases the brigands are enlisted soldiers who desert with their arms and ammunition after being left without food or pay for many months.’
   ‘And what if I’m captured?’ I asked.
   ‘The food won’t be good. They won’t kill you, you’re worth much too much alive. The going rate to ransom a European is 150 rifles, 50 automatic pistols, 4 machine-guns and 1000 British pounds. Americans cost more.’
   I asked Macartney why he chose to stay in the back of beyond. He laughed.‘Needs must,’ he replied. ‘You get used to it. It isn’t so bad. The town wasn’t always so derided. My wife and I spend our evenings reading about its past. There has been a rich history of over 2,000 years. It’s China’s version of Timbuktu. Art, the sciences, music and literature flourished. Hundreds of world-renowned Uyghur scholars emerged. Thousands of valuable books were written.’
   Chapter VI
   I Leave Kashgar
   November 6. Kashgar is now well behind me. A stream we are following disappears and reappears, part of its course being below the ground. The weather is turning. The mules and horses are finding the long uphill gradients at these heights very trying. I spent last night at a settlement even more forsaken than Kashgar. I couldn’t even discover its name. At one time it was a gateway to the Silk Road, then travellers switched to another route and the town was abandoned. The small garrison is all that’s left of human habitation, guarding against any unlikely sudden attack from the western barbarians. A two-handed pole weapon would be better than the weapons they possess.
   We camped in a lonely spot by a small river. The mafoo (syce) tells me we are being watched. One of the hired donkeys carries 900 taels of silver, a worthwhile amount to commandeer. Two mounted men came over the crest of the hill, looked down at us, and, when we sent a boy to investigate, disappeared again.
   I have taken to carrying my Webley-Pryse revolver under my jacket. I regret not employing a half-dozen armed convoy-bodyguards for this 24 mile stretch. I plan to take the donkeyman’s advice and strike camp in the dark to gain a mile or two on any miscreant before day-break.
   Something Holmes said has left me deflated. I keep wondering why General Yuán didn’t tell me he had first gone to meet Holmes on the bee-farm. It seems despite Sir Edward Grey’s assurances I was an after-thought after all.
   November 8. For a week I have been thrown together with a party of other travellers. We passed through wild mountainous country covered with dense scrub and bamboo, uninhabited except for a few visiting wood-cutters. The only fuel is yak-dung purchased from a nomad encampment. All the cooking has to be done in the open and everything tastes of the smoke from the abominable stuff.
   Last night we pitched tents in a sheltered spot at 13,900 feet, some 1700 feet below a knife-edge pass. A penetrating cold wind blew non-stop. The traffic over the pass is mostly carried on by coolies bearing long bamboo baskets on their backs, at the hire of traders in pelts, pine seeds, ginseng and horses from the northeast. A passing mafoo on a shaggy pony sold me a Mongolian cap, a huge thing of red flannel, wadded and trimmed with fur, with ear-flaps which can be tied under the chin. The cap has already proved of great value.
   I have covered 519 miles in thirty-six stages since Kashgar. The sooner I reach some kind of place with four walls and a roof and a good fire for warmth and cooking, the better. In my Afghan days we had a saying,‘the best bivouac is not equal to the worst billet’. Things are not helped by my latest donkeyman’s fondness for short cuts worn down by the feet and the rains of centuries, bridle paths which defy my compass bearings and more often than not result in unnecessary and intensely arduous hours of travel.
   We are passed by British-Indian merchants constantly on the move from the Province of Xinjiang over the Himalaya and back, their horse caravans laden in the one direction with Indian spices and Manchester cotton prints, and in the other with Turkestan merchandise such as gold, jade, khotan carpets, Kirghiz felts, and above all a narcotic extracted from the hemp plantCannabis sativa, known locally as Nasha but to Europeans as Hashish. For a few pence a time, the smugglers provide any master with a near-perfect communication system across these vast and difficult regions. The traders are as eager as I to avoid interception by bandits or opportunistic Chinese authorities.
   Despite another arduous 12-hour day on foot I’m having difficulty sleeping, possibly because of the high altitude.
   November 9. After-thought in Yuán’s mind or not, I am taking my commission seriously. I’ve started mapping outlying garrisons and their settings at 4 inches to 1 English mile, identifying approaches as ‘fordable’, ‘wall-broken scaleable’, ‘buttress cracked’, ‘wall about 10 feet high 3 feet thick’, ‘buildings suitable for billets’& c.
   Roads. Even in such a remote region as this there once existed great imperial highways, arteries of Empire paved with stone and bordered with trees. Now badly neglected, the ruins of the ancient tracks present serious impediments to travel. For difficult stretches the muleteer takes on a local horseman to act as road finder. Farmers have turned long stretches of highway into the narrowest of strips by an extended system of banks and ditches. If heavy summer rains wash away a part of the farm into the strip, the farmer digs his land out again, a process which, combined with natural drainage and incessant dust-storms, has resulted in transforming the road into a canal. At the coldest time of the year these arteries freeze, making it easier to move along, like canals in Amsterdam.
   I shall put it to General Yuán the New Army could gain the affection of the people if it put these former roads into good repair, to his own advantage if military demands arise.
   November 14. A two-mile tramp has brought us in view of a torrent below. On steep cliffs opposite, clinging to bare, wild, rocky moraines, perches an isolated temple. Behind and to our left is a great mountain where thunderstorms are gathering. We face a descent of 1500 feet to the river-bank. Chocolate-brown waters passes under the bridge, eddying and swirling in great whirlpools. Flooded by rain far upstream, the river roars on its way, making the mules difficult to hold. This mighty river with a course of over 2,000 miles is apparently crossed only by the one bridge, a suspension bridge with boards resting on two pairs of six chains. From a military perspective, its principal virtue lies in the ability of just a handful of men to hold up an army - and break the chains if certain defeat looms.
   I have been mapping every step of the way up hill and down dale using a Service Prismatic oil-filled compass. The half-a-crown boiling-point thermometer, so useful for gauging altitude, has disappeared, possibly stolen. I have to make a good fist at estimating altitudes, partly by triangulation when unobserved, or (especially in suspicious company) by noting the boiling point of water for our tea. By this method I reckoned the height of one pass to be 15,600 feet, almost three hundred feet higher than estimated by a trigonometrical survey some fifty years earlier. Unfortunately my last bottle of methylated spirits fell from a mule and broke. I shall have to make do with candles to heat water.
   I am recording the local names of rivers when I can discover them, not made easy by the fact big rivers in China, except the Yellow River, have different names as they pass through different districts. The name on a chart may be unrecognisable to the local population. Small rivers have a different name in each village they pass.
   Today I took a small boat and went fishing. The waters were full of shih-hua fish. They taste fresh and delicious, difficult to describe in words.
   November 17. Spent much of the day inspecting a trio of garrisons along the length of a strategic all-weather pass. At 10am I inspected the first fort. After lunch I was conducted with proper ceremonial to the site of my second inspection, the middle fort. The roll was called, the men answered their names, and I expressed my same satisfaction at the condition of the post. After a delay for tea, I was transported to the westernmost fort. Returning to my encampment I have grown the more certain the men at the three forts did not just look alike, they were theexact men from the first fort hurriedly transported to the second and onward to the third. Otherwise there must be three entirely different men with the exact same scar on their cheek as though they’d all been members of a Prussian duelling club. Padding out three forts this way enables the officers to fleece their government for supplies and money for triple the true number of men under their command.
   I have started jotting notes on preparation needed for battles to come between any outside Powers and the Middle Kingdom. The first step must be to build a proper corps of stretcher and dooly bearers for the carriage of sick and wounded from the battle fields. The equivalent was singularly lacking around my position during the Battle of Maiwand. If my bearer Murray had not been a reliable - and strong - companion, the bullet from an Afghan Jezzail which struck me would have done for me from exsanguination alone.
   Nationally there are about 200,000 enrolled bannermen and some further thousands in the Peking gendarmerie. Many of them have courage but there is no tradition to render them fruitful. No martial spirit. No disgrace for the coward. No honour for the valiant. Devising training for these souls is not going to be easy. Heaven help them if they come up against a modern army of 10,000 men, even the Russian infantry.
   Banner garrisons were designed as internal Manchu colonies responsive only to Peking’s commands, strategically-dotted to forestall the emergence of regional armed satrapies. Matchlock guns had been distributed among the garrisons I inspected three weeks ago. Each soldier stored his ration of gunpowder in a small bamboo case strapped to his torso, on the grounds this permitted easy reach for reloading. The habit persisted even after I remonstrated on my visit. My fears were quickly justified. When to demonstrate their prowess the men threw themselves to the ground to aim, their matches set fire to the packages of gunpowder strapped to the waists and chests of the cotton-padded uniforms. Three of them burned to death before our eyes.
   Another practice needs urgent attention. It has been the norm in the less-trusted non-bannerman units to keep artillery and rifles in a locked arsenal. The soldier selects his weapon anew every time its use is called for. Drills consist of one soldier after another lining up and firing a single shot. The soldiers often do not know how to load or fire the weapons issued to them on any particular day, therefore they fail to adjust to the peculiarities of individual weapon.
   November 20. We have halted for the night under the shadow of a great mass of grey rock. Nearby is an unnamed village of about 100 families. The‘dibao’ - headman - is a woman. The villagers’ principal income comes from growing vegetables and fruits, and grains, especially rice and barley, and from mercury sulphide mines. I plan to purchase a supply of pomegranates, grapes, turnips and rice.
   At sun-up I asked for permission to photograph the dibao and her private chaplains, amidst their butter-lamps and cups of wine.
   A Japanese archaeologist-cum-spy camped nearby presented me with a wide-brimmed hat made of bamboo plait. It looked like the top of an enormous white mushroom. The light frame inside fits around the brow, leaving a space of about one-and-a-half inches between the head and the hat for the free circulation of air. It’s proving quite the most perfect travelling hat I’ve ever owned, even better than the red-flannel Mongolian cap.
   Today I had my second encounter with a local Chinese Military garrison. The instructor conducting the foot drill did a fair job manoeuvring the men from an eight-wide route-march formation to two-wide for passing back and forth through the garrison’s gates and narrow passages without losing time or cohesion.
   I am coming across a stumbling-block in my attempt to map populations on the way. The Chinese do not know how many families there are in their villages, nor does any Chinaman wish to know. When I ask, I receive the reply,‘a few hundreds’, or even ‘not a few’. But a fixed and definite number? No.
   November 22. I spent the morning at my third local garrison. A motto inscribed over the gate, translated as‘A multitude of stars, a small cloud’. My interpreter said it meant just as a small cloud can cover many stars, a small body of resolute men can defeat a large army. Certainly not the eighty men of this garrison, I reflected. The fort had been sited in exactly the wrong position. The field of fire was poor. Ditto the arrangements for storage of ammunition, water and supplies. The parapets were not bullet-proofed. There was little head-cover. Even where it was provided it was conspicuous. There was no provision for extinguishing fires. The walls were loopholed but lacked dummy loopholes todraw away enemy fire. Overhead cover (to keep out splinters of shells) consisted of earth hardly 3 inches thick, rather than 9 to 12 inches.
   The general bannerman is from the peasantry and hence as superstitious as all of the class. Many of them hold the belief that by carrying rolled-up pieces of papers with certain magical inscriptions into battle they will be protected by spirits from harm, and their eyes, finger-tips or nostrils will emit lethal lights, and by magic block the foreigners’ gun-barrels.
   Marginal note: some weeks after I recorded this, Yuán confronted the bannermen’s belief in magic powers by assembling a corps of his provincial garrison and ordering a firing squad to shoot at them. The protective ‘lethal light’ meant to emanate from the corps’ nostrils and finger-tips failed to make its presence known to the firing squad.A number of the bannermen fell dead. The survivors, including the wounded, were sent to all the outlying garrisons to tell the grim tale.
   November 24. The weather is cold. At the higher altitude oxygen levels are commensurately low. I have taken to wearing an extra thick coat and several layers of clothing, gloves, hat, long underwear and water resistant boots with good traction.
   The predominant affliction among the bannermen is sore feet, the subject of much banter but in battle fatal to the infantry. At each garrison I instruct the men to bathe their feet in water coloured a bright pink with Condy’s crystals and give them a promise to ask the High Command to issue stout roomy boots and woollen foot cloths or stockings for marching in the snow. My words caused barely-suppressed laughter. Evidently the soldiers think the boots and foot cloths would be yet another source of income for their officers well before they got pulled on the ordinary soldiers’ feet.
   Towards Tibet the garrisons are manned by some 70 despondent Muhamadan soldiers seeing out their lives in desolate isolation. There is a total lack of technological preparedness. The forts are made of mud, dilapidated, protected only by a few old cast-iron guns which would look more in place in the Tower of London museum. The men spend their time in pastry cooking, bird-raising and cricket fighting and tending their diminutive plots of cabbages, turnips, onions and tobacco.
   As to building a strong fighting force, a New Army, China’s need is most certainly desperate. Learning is esteemed. Soldiering is despised. The line between mercenary and parasitic soldier and out-and-out bandit is hard to draw. The lack of surgeons remains critical. There are not more than three competent field-surgeons in the entire Chinese Army. Thelack of understanding of triage is evident everywhere. The remedies prescribed for common illnesses such as scurvy, malaria, and smallpox are more likely to kill than cure. I shall suggest a home and hospital for aged and unwell soldiers like the Hôpital des Invalides in Paris which can also housea medical training school.
   December 1. We have spent several days bivouacking with no sign of our own species other than stone fireplaces in old encampments. When the nomads strike camp to get to lower levels for the winter months or to move their grazing-ground, the fireplace is left behind, ready for when they return the next season.
   China’s mountain ranges and most of the roads are impassable due to lack of upkeep. The spread of modern wireless telegraph communication between garrisons is essential. It can take two weeks to get a message from one command post to another using messengers on foot or carrier pigeons. Even Yuán Shì-kai’s yamen in Tientsin is not yet connected by telegraph and telephone with the Imperial palaces and the various barracks.
   Our caravan has been following a stream full of great boulders. I am paying an extortionate 5d a mile for each of the mules or riding horses (and sometimes yaks) under the command of their own muleteers, plus two taels of silver per mule or horse for their fodder consisting mostly of beans. One of the ponies has gone lame.
   Today I captured a scene with the Aeroscope whilst crossing an unbridged river about 200 feet wide, muddy, with a strong current. The ferry consisted of a half-dozen coracles made from interwoven bamboo and waterproofed with resin and coconut oil, and paddled by one or two men. The animals swam. After each journey the boats had to be pulled a half-mile upstream, to float back to the other side.
   December 3. Wonderful to hear the King’s English spoken again (albeit with a Scottish accent). We are camped near a pair of medical missionaries, recent arrivals in a strange land. They are full of Christianity and antiseptics. Mrs. Macpherson from Inverness is like one of Rossetti’s pale and emaciated beauties. The couple are onlyjust beginning to realize they have arrived in a land of demons, goblins, evil spirits of rivers and mountains, apparitions, magic, ghosts and mysterious occurrences. One of their boys is a Tibetan educated at Rugby School. His belief in Drought ghosts, the returning spirits of men who were consumed by carnal lust in life, and in death create hot, dry winds, is undiminished.
   With a regal disdain for Feng-shui, the Macphersons have plumped for a site to build a church and establish an orphanage and do their Deity’s work, with plenty of the Creator’s finest waterfowl nearby - wild duck, partridges and pheasants. The orphanage lies empty. Being certain that our missionaries gouge out eyes and grind up human bones for medicine, ditto human hearts, the Chinese are not going to be tricked into placing children in the missionaries’ care. Witnesses abound who swear they’ve come across Christian cemeteries full of newly-buried bodies lacking eyes and hearts.
   In reality many children are blind or deformed long before their impoverished rural parents offer them to the Catholics and Protestants to save the entire family from starving. If it’s sheer quantity of souls they want, the missionaries would reap a far larger harvest if they took their tracts to the kitchens of Paris, or London’s Chinese laundries. However, appeals ‘for our missionaries converting the heathen Chinese’ seemed to be a wonderful fundraiser back home. TheChinese in China will do more to heathenise the English than the English to Christianise them, despite - or because of - all our missions.
   China may not be in need of our Bible but is in urgent need of our science. If the Macphersons insist on remaining in China they can do more good through medicine. The filaria worm is hard at work where-ever I go. As many as a third of the soldiery have large scrotal tumours. Not much is known about the life-cycle of the worm which causes these. I suspect there is an intermediate host, the mosquito perhaps.
   A Japanese has billeted himself on the missionaries for the night. He confided he is engaged in an exhaustive topographical survey of the Celestial Chinese Empire. There is, he said (slightly in his cups), an interesting rumour doing the rounds that General Yuán has received permission to establish three new divisions. There will soon be a shortage of ponies because the New Army is purchasing 6,000 of the beasts and offering £3 per mount.
   Without establishing an Army Veterinary School Yuán will lose half to injury and disease even before the first skirmish comes along.
   December 7. Two days ago the Tibetan muleteer I engaged for a journey along an unfrequented route developed a severe form of malignant malaria known as‘chang chih’. Inspite of intra-muscular injections of quinine he died just before sundown this evening. A mile back we passed a small plot of land used by Chinese traders as a cemetery. I shall pay to bury him there and continue my journey.
   December 8. After this morning’s burial I embarked on a river journey. Aboard I read American author Mark Twain’s memoirLife On The Mississippi, his years as a steamboat pilot before the American Civil War. I was amazed when he referred to thumb-printing criminals based on the uniqueness of this human‘calling-card’. The memoir was published in 1883. If our own Scotland Yard had taken note they may have arrested the fiendish murderer Jack the Ripper. Between August and November 1888 the bloodthirsty monster left hand-prints all over the settings of his terrible mutilations in London’s EastEnd. Some speculate his handiwork with a scalpel meant he must have trained as a surgeon, perhaps in the British Army. I doubt the military aspect. Most of us commissioned in medical departments of the British and Indian Services were probably not as skilled as The Ripper. In my final year at Netley no-one won the £20 which came with the Montefiore Medal for Military Surgery, competing for which of us could amputate a leg in less than 30 seconds.
   December 10. Within a week I should get to _______, the most strategic fortress in the entire region.
   December 11. Insect world particularly active today. Climbed for a solid twelve hours towards a pass through peaks snow-covered all year round. Legs swollen and painful. A case of physician heal thyself. A good rest would do it but I must press on.
   Near the summit a little templehewn out of the stone hung some twenty feet above the track. The priests mount to their perch by perilous steps chipped out of the face of the mountainside. To my amazement we were overtaken by a long string of two-humped tawny camels and mules wearing tinkling bells, laden for the most part with tea for Kalgan and Kiakhta.
   Today I was able to give the Aeroscope camera another‘outing’ in recording a cultural curiosity. Cowrie shells are brought in from Burmah and India. They are valued at 50 to the Chinese tael. The unmarried girls wear them, the shells being looked upon as a kind of dowry. I gave two of the girls our empty biscuit tins in return for a short sequence with the Aeroscope wearing their cowrie headdresses. Extremes of temperature have had no deleterious effect on the camera’s mechanism. It has managed well in the coldest mountain passes where it can drop to 20 below zero, but also handles the steamiest river valleys. What effect these changes oftemperature will have on the film I can’t tell. I have now used two reels, leaving two to go.
   December 16. I am entering Han territory - China proper, separate from the Manchu homelands of the north. The poorer classes have to work hard for their daily bowl of rice and cabbage. Women as well as the men smoke. This seems to be almost their only luxury.
   There is a poetical name for the bound feet of Chinese women - golden lilies.
   December 22. My long journey through Biblical wildernesses in search of garrisons unheard of since the Silk Roads began is nearing an end. This is my last night in the south-western Province of Sichuan. A vast basin is surrounded by the Himalayas to the west, the Qin Mountains to the north, and mountainous areas of Yunnan to the south.
   The village garrison I inspected today was gratifyingly attentive. I later heard that General Yuán had anticipated my arrival and sent the militia their seven months’ outstanding pay.
   December 27. Relief that the Christians’ holiest day of the year has come and gone. The past few days have been emotional, remembering Christmases spent with my dear late wife and before that as a child with my parents.
   I have now met up with General Yuán at Hsiao-chan, between Tientsin and Peking. There are ten corps here, consisting of heavy artillery, rapid-fire gun and reserves. The arms and equipment are far from standard. Just as much as they need a National Medical Corps they need an Office of Military Supplies. The state of un-readiness is palpable. Organization and logistics are inadequate, officer training deficient, and corruption widespread.
   There is a general reluctance to adopt western training techniques. The bannermen would be more at ease with lead-weighted hammers, fighting iron, halberds, mauls, poleaxes and falcon-beaks than modern ordnance. A number of the troops are expert in unarmed combat, followers of the fighting monks of the Shaolin Temple who, when denied weaponry to defend themselves, turned their‘feet into spears and the fist to a mace’. They hold that mastery lies in the cultivation of the ‘Qi’, the life force flowing along the meridians of the body.
   Unfortunately - as the British found in the recent South African wars - the opportunity for hand to hand combat (even with feet for spears) went out of fashion with the arrival of the German bolt action Mauser and especially the Maxim machine gun, the recoil-operated weapon most associated with British imperial conquest.
   Over lunch, in jovial mood, the General confided he lives as much as possible according to the precepts of the Chinese general Sun Zi, military strategist and philosopher, alive some 1,500 years ago. I considered this claim extremely unlikely. Sun Zi counselled‘The General must be the first in the toils and fatigues of the army. In the heat of the summer he does not shade himself under a parasol, nor in the cold of winter don thick clothing. He waits until the army’s wells have been dug before he drinks, until the army’s food is cooked before he eats, until the army’s fortifications have been completed before he himself takes shelter.’
   As I was leaving, the General said,‘Oh, Dr. Watson, I must thank you for suggesting a copy of Wisden’s Almanack for my sons at Sherborne. I bought a copy at that bookshop in Brighton. It was greatly appreciated - the young tigers are becoming little Englishmen already.’
   January 3, 1907. Today’s meeting with Yuán was instructive. We inspected one of the better-equipped corps. The General insisted I ride alongside him decked out in borrowed plumed helmet, fringed epaulettes and white gloves like the Duke of Wellington. I shall recommend switching his present Army saddles to the British steel-arched cavalry saddle.
   The General’s military re-organisation in the north is well under way. The cavalry is equipped with both Mausers and lances, and artillery with six-gun batteries (one to six-pounders), as well as Maxim machine-guns. Yuán’s discipline is extreme. He reacts in only two ways to subordinates. He promotes them or beheads them. There is still a problem with officers embezzling the troops’ wages or paying them in bad coin, and both men and officers smoking opium (the best quality supplied from British India). The penalty for opium-smoking in Yuán’s army is the loss of one ear for a first offence, death for the second.
   Yuán knows the prospect of money and status is a great incentive to the northern troops. He is instituting a system of battle rewards in which a person awarded the highest medal, class 1, would also be entitled to a sum of 3,000 Mexican dollars annually, for life, in addition to his normal salary. The lesser class 11 medal would carry an annual bonus of 2,000 dollars, down to class V with 250 dollars.
   These are substantial sums. Even the lowest category - 250 Mexican dollars–will enable a soldier’s family to live comfortably for twelve months.
   That evening I penned the following recommendations in a preamble to my report:‘The Chinese make capital soldiers if they are well commanded. Fresh recruitment should replace most of the present bannermen. It should be among men 20 to 25 years of age, more than 5 feet tall, able to lift up 100lbs and to walk 6 miles an hour, and free from the opium habit. Former miners should be welcome. It should not be top-heavy with placemen officers. Nor should recruits expect to bring wives, children and camp-followers for the ride.’
   My recommendations included the following ratios: 1 general (General Yuán); 5 colonels; 25 captains; 125 lieutenants; 500 sergeants; 2,500 corporals; 10,000 infantry.
   Tomorrow I leave for Chichou.
   January 7. Yuán invited me to divert from my planned route and meet him at the Military Academy at Tientsin. Yesterday I observed several sessions, one conducted by a Prussian by the name of von Somebody-or-other (‘Knipping’?) and a Norwegian whose name I can’t pronounce. The engineering school training is excellent - fortification, bridge-building, ordnance, repair, surveying, mine-laying and telegraph detachments up to European standard. Diversity of guns and small arms still a great defect.
   At one point the General leaned across to me and whispered,‘I hope all this is in time. Portents on every hand suggest the Dynasty has not much longer to run. The Imperial House must arouse itself from its coma, revitalize the Empire.’
   January 10. My duties came to an end today after attending the New Army’s full-scale manœuvres. About 80,000 men in the field. The General was on horseback, decked out in fringed epaulettes, white gloves and plumed helmet like a Grand Marshal in some comic operetta. On the whole I do not yet consider the force is formidable. A Division of European troops could overthrow it between breakfast and lunch.
   I shall spend some time on my report before setting off for Peking.
   Chapter VII
   I Reach Peking
   Peach blossoms heralded the start of a new season when at last Peking appeared in the distance. My conveyance would enter the city by the Ch’ien-Men Gate, squeezing between clumps of the five thousand camels entering and leaving the citadel each day. I looked forward to catching up with Holmes and exchanging our news. Had he discovered anything of a plot against the Empress Dowager Cixi or her nephew, the ‘Son of Heaven’?
   I stared forward as the walls came nearer. The Chinese believe good spirits cross space at a height of 100 feet. No building, not even the Drum Tower, approaches this height for fear of obstructing the spirit entities and turning their goodwill to wrath.
   I took out the first edition of Lewis Carroll’sAlice in Wonderland which Holmes’s brother Mycroft had given me. It fell open on the book-marked page:
   ‘But I don’t want to go among mad people,’ Alice remarked.
   ‘Oh, you can’t help that,’ said the Cat: ‘we’re all mad here. I’m mad. You’re mad.
   ‘How do you know I’m mad?’ said Alice.
   ‘You must be,’ said the Cat, ‘or you wouldn’t have come here.’* * *
   General Yuán had assigned a young Mandarin by the name of Wang Feng to meet me on my arrival and take me to my quarters where Holmes was already billeted. Wang was waiting just inside the Ch’ien-Men Gate. We greeted each other formally. Every whiff of air told me why he had chosen to stand almost obscuredby a row of young Pittosporum trees on sale, all in full flower. Their perfume helped to mask the overpowering stench of the roadway.
   Wang Feng presented a slight and elegant figure, approaching thirty years of age, hardly five feet five in height, with a well-shaped head, large brown eyes and rather drooping eyelids and a high nose. The high brow indicated well developed intellectual qualities. The whole gave him an aesthetic air. At my bidding he clambered aboard the conveyance and we set off. It was a relief to be accompanied by someone who spoke such excellent English.
   Wang was, he told me, a jiancha yushi, an Investigating Censor, district magistrate, detective, prosecutor, judge, and jury all wrapped up into one. He claimed descent from the great Judge Bao but despite this his entry into public life had been slow. He was only on the first rung, his duties confined to directing locust-exterminating or purchasing sacrificial animals,‘and destroying old paper money’ In time he could progress from minor to ‘chung’ - ordinary: ‘Purifying troops, salt control, inspecting frontier passes, supervising trade in tea and horses. That sort of thing.’
   Apropos of nothing I could discern, Wang added,‘I am a follower of Han Fei.’
   ‘I would be happy to meet him during my stay,’ I replied. ‘Can you arrange it?’
   His sphinx-like countenance showed the faintest shadow of a smile.
   ‘It might be difficult,’ came the reply. ‘He died twenty-one centuries ago.’
   Behind the city wall, temples fragrant with incense awaited us. Lacquer-screened verandahs overlooked pools of lotus flowers. We passed edifices with exotic names - Rain Flower Pavilion, Precious Moonlight Tower, Palace of Accumulated Elegance, Hall of Protecting Harmony, Studio of Eternal Spring - each finished with the seven preciosities: gold, silver, lapis lazuli, crystal, ruby, emerald and coral.
   We moved ever-deeper into the teeming streets. The Chinese call the Forbidden City‘Tse-Kin-Cheng’, the Purple City. Formerly only purple mortar was permitted in building it. The colour of the roof tiles was strictly stipulated, yellow for the royal palaces, green for the princes, and grey for all the others. The courtyards and the narrow alleys were filled with cotton-clad men and women, the men whether Manchu or Han dressed alike in the Manchu robe, the Manchu women distinguished from their Han sisterhood by distinctive hairstyles, platform shoes and long robes. A jumble of blue- and yellow-tiled palaces, pavilions and apartments formed the inner precincts.
   Once inside the Great Within, I was struck by the large number of eunuchs with their peculiar walk, leaning slightly forward, legs close together, taking short, mincing steps, with the toes turned outward. Rendered sexually impotent by mutilation or removal of the external genitals, they served as palace menials, harem watch-dogs, and spies for rulers in most of the ancient world kingdoms. Whether the odd walk was a physical necessity or imposed upon eunuchs as a rule of conduct to denote their station Wang could not answer. A small gaggle of them ran alongside us, eyeing me, the younger ones freshly culled from the far provinces seeing a‘big-nose’ foreigner for the first time.
   Wang pointed at a small hut just outside a gate.
   ‘That’s the Western Gate of the Tzu Chin Palace. Where every one of these ‘crows’...’ he pointed at the excited gaggle, ‘...were emasculated. That’s where they became eunuchs.’
   He turned to observe my expression.
   ‘I can take you to the next cutting, if you like. There’s always a small paying audience. As a doctor, you might be interested in the process.’
   With a smile, he added,‘We have greatly refined the operation since the Egyptians. They treated the wound with ashes and hot oil. We bandage the candidate’s stomach and upper thighs to reduce blood flow to his genitalia, then we wash his private parts three times with hot pepper-water as an anaesthetic and settle himon a heated couch. Very civilized, you see.’
   ‘And then?’ I asked with professional concern.
   ‘Apprentices hold him firmly around the waist and thighs and the knifer approaches him with a small, curve-bladed knife. The candidate is asked, ‘Hou huei bu hou huei?’ - ‘Will you regret or not regret this?’. Upon the young man replying he will not regret it, the knife does its work. Both the penis and the scrotum are severed. A plug is placed in the urethra. No drinking of any sort is allowed for three days. Then the plug is removed. If urine flows from the small hole in the wound, all is well. The operation has been a success. Otherwise he dies.’
   It was also vital for the eunuch to keep his organs (his‘precious’). They would be placed in his coffin at his death in the hope of hoodwinking the gods of the underworld into believing he was a complete man: otherwise he was doomed to appear in the next world as a she-mule.
   Wang added,‘Imagine. All that for just six taels.’
   He pointed at his head.
   ‘Six taels is what I pay to keep the front of my skull shaved and my queue braided.’* * *
   I absorbed the sights and sounds with the ear of a newcomer or a blind man as we travelled deeper into the near-mythical city. The clack-clack-clack of a hollow bamboo announced a foot-doctor, the rattlinghuan tou a barber, a charcoal-seller’s drums. We passed an elderly man with a few blue threads in his queue. At my look of enquiry Wang whispered, ‘Recently widowed’.
   By contrast with the eunuchs the themes of fertility and the production of sons proliferated throughout, the palaces decorated with bats, and persimmons, peaches and cranes, motifs signifying fecundity, longevity, harmony and happiness.
   My guide pointed ahead at a temple on the far side of a large bazaar.
   ‘Your quarters,’ he said. ‘Remember its name - The Temple of the Myriad Years. Even those born in Peking get lost. That little hut next to it is a menial house where the eunuch guarding your doors will stay.’
   To my delight, Holmes was awaiting my arrival, standing at the front o four temple accommodation. We arranged for Wang to return in the afternoon.
   The moment we were alone I asked,‘Well, Holmes, have you foiled a dastardly plot? If so, let me have a few days...’ I held up the Aeroscope camera, ‘...to see the sights. Then we can start on our journey home.’
   Holmes’s face fell at my enquiry.
   ‘Not the jot or tittle of a plot, Watson,’ came the despondent reply. ‘So far my time has been wasted. It seems unimaginable anyone could get near the Emperor or the Empress Dowager with murder in mind. There are more than 3,000 eunuchs in the Forbidden City, united only in each being as greedy, jealous, manipulative, conniving, violent and selfish as the other. They know they will receive a vast reward in jade and baubles for raising the alarm. I wager every one of them is utterly untrustworthy, only out for themselves, incapable of loyalty even to those who grease their wretched palms, but 6,000 such eyes form a formidable barrier against any assassin.’* * *
   Dinner was brought to our Temple rooms on platters sealed in yellow silk wrappings, allegedly the left-overs from the Empress-Dowager’s evening meal. It was said her food was served solely on silverware because poisons react visibly on its surface. We were offered deer’s sinews, shark fin, shrimp eggs, fish brains, birds-nest soup, birds’ tongues, and what I discovered - too late - to be dog-meat. Macaroni was kept boilinghot on chafing-dishes on side-tables. A pearly white rice from Xiaozhan appeared daily on the lunch menu, accompanied by a vase of amber-coloured sweet wine made from glutinous rice, a speciality of the Chin-hwa district. We washed the meals down with a sort of blancmange of lotus-root flour and a jar each of special water from the Jade Spring Hills.
   After breakfast the following morning, Holmes and I were sharing a pipe when a knock at the door signalled the presence of an Imperial messenger clutching a golden scroll. The High Court and Summer Palace had noted my arrival.
   ‘Written in the First Hand with the Vermillion Brush,’ Holmes observed.
   The emissary’s hand moved puppet-like to unroll the springy parchment. We were to meet the Empress-Dowager and the Kuang-hsü Emperor at 10 o’clock at the Nei Wu Fu, the pavilion of the Imperial Household.
   An hour later, each suitably attired in formal dress of frock coat and top hat, we walked to the waiting palanquin. Holmes stayed silent, replying to any question with a non-committal nod. I gazed out at the passing scene of compradors in long gowns of grey pongee silk, literary men in white grasscloth gowns, Chinese and western society women wearing hats of rice straw or blue harebell straw trimmed with costly ostrich plumes, velvet bows, osprey feathers and lace.
   Soon we found ourselves among an array of flamboyant foreign dignitaries going in the same direction, carried by tasselled, braided, violet-cushioned sedan chairs of blue silk. All made way for the Acknowledged Merit in the person of a Mandarin with eight bearers and a crowd of mounted retainers, the latter holding bamboos to beat back the crowds and three-pronged forks for catching thieves by their clothing.* * *
   The Empress Dowager’s lair was a vast ensemble of palaces, lakes and gardens covering an area of 860 acres, almost five times the size of the Forbidden City, all meticulously sculptured by thousands of labourers into the most beautiful and harmonious views the human mind could conceive. The vermillion walls of the temples and palaces were built entirely of wood, with yellow-glazed tile roofs. Names and shapes and colours all had meanings. Yellow symbolized the sun and by extension Royalty.
   We descended from our carriage. The corridors were crowded with functionaries in Court dress, civilians glittering with Orders, officers in uniform. A servant led us to an ante-chamber so opulent that it would put to shame the waiting-rooms of many of the Sovereigns of Europe.
   Handshakes are an alien custom to the Chinese. Chinese and Manchu officials greet each other by clasping their hands together in front of their chests with a slight bow of the head. The full kowtow, kneeling and bowing so low as to have one’s head touching the ground, was expected for imperial audiences. A functionary informed us foreigners could go on one knee before the Ch’ing emperor, as we might before our own King. It was different for the Chinese, he explained. Neither the ‘Everlasting Lord’ (the young Emperor) nor Empress Dowager Cixi ever got into a motor-car because a chauffeur could not drive it while kneeling on both knees before them as was the obligatory custom.
   We walked thirty paces into Their Majesties’ presence. Those few steps transported us from the present into a scene the mirror image of ‘The Arabian Thousand Nights And One Night’ where genies, bahamuts, magic carpets and magic lamps abounded.
   The Emperor and the Empress Dowager sat at opposite ends of a low table on a dais. I looked at the woman who swayed‘All under Heaven’. This first sight was mesmeric and overwhelming. In the Qitou manner she wore her hair - ‘Hair of the Manchu nobility’ - parted in the middle, braided and knotted into a bun to form the base of the headdress. An elaborate swaying crown studded with precious stones and jewels was held in place by gold pins and filigree - cat’s eyes, lapis lazuli from the Sar-i Sang mines in faraway Afghanistan, coral and turquoise and pearls from the Sunmgari River, diamonds from Africa.
   The gown of Imperial yellow reached from the neck to the floor in the graceful Manchu fashion. It was fastened from the right shoulder to the hem with jade buttons, and brocaded so extensively with Wistaria vine in realistic colours that the yellow was scarcely visible. The Manchu shoes were richly jewelled and adorned with a hanging fringe of pearls. The stilt-like soles added six inches to her slight height. Under constant surveillance by eunuchs as numerous as the flies around the Forbidden City’s open sewers, she was hemmed in by endlessly conspiratorial mandarins and princes and ubiquitous censors ready to denounce anyone for a bribe. Her amiability was the more unexpected in the face of the heavy duties of court life, from which there was no respite. Grand Council meetings began at 4am.
   On my way to Peking I had visited the southern province of Anhui where‘The Venerable Ancestress’ was born some seventy years earlier. Her father Huizheng was a Manchu officer in the Blue Bordered Banner regiment. The future Empress Dowager was named Yehonala and later nicknamed ‘the Orchid Lady’. Who could have known the young woman from the Manchu Yehenara clan was destined to rule over the Middle Kingdom for 50 years, the supreme female overlord of a feudal society? Without the most extraordinary twists and turns of fate, rather than here, she might have lived out her life, unknown, in the provinces.
   A man with the wrinkled face and skin of old parchment stood behind her in the shadows. It was the Chief Eunuch Li Lien-ying. By reputation he was a compulsive intriguer. When he spoke his voice was low and pleasant, his manners insinuating and elegant. To emphasize his importance to her, the Empress Dowager had in public presented him with the jade‘ju-yi’, symbol of Royal power. He frequently wore the Dragon robes sacred to the use of the sovereign. He styled himself ‘Lord of nine thousand years’ - only one degree lower than the Emperor, the ‘Lord of ten thousand years’.
   Li Lien-ying’s corruptly-gained wealth was enormous. He owned farms, pawn-shops and lucrative money-changing establishments. Four years later when his obituary appeared inThe Times, Peking bankers estimated his worth at over two millions Sterling from the corrupt sale of official posts. On his death the apartments of this former cobbler’s apprentice were found stacked to the ceilings with dragon robes and tribute silk.
   I turned my gaze to the‘Son of Heaven’. He was clutching a jade piece to cool his palms. The sight of him roused my professional concern. He was pale and listless, with a glazed expression and a troublesome irritation of the throat. The symptoms spoke of terrible events in earlier years, giving rise to neurasthenia, the equivalent of the shell-shock often observed but seldom addressed after savage and unsuccessful military campaigns. The nostrums prepared for him by his Chinese doctors with their reverential talk of vapours and occult influences would most likely mirror the curatives offered by mediaeval European physicians.
   It was then I realized the Empress Dowager was beckoning to me. Nervously I stepped forward. To my surprise she pushed away her attendants and moved a few paces from the table.
   In English she said,‘Dr. Watson, welcome to my country. I have heard much about your chronicles. They are known all across the world. I hope I can be candid with you. It is my fate that those who hate me are more articulate than those who love me. They revile me and black out my accomplishments. I feel compelled to give utterance to my thoughts which you may take away, just as a bird leaves the hand that holds it and flies to a far off place. The destiny of the Middle Kingdom has been in my hands, and mine alone, for nearly fifty years. My death cannot be far distant. When you return to England I want you to tell your people the truth about me.’
   With‘We must talk, alone. I shall send for you,’ she fell silent. Her eyes strayed towards the seated Emperor. Our brief, unexpected meeting was over. I stepped away, bowing. A hand touched my shoulder. Next to me, smiling widely, stood the General.
   ‘Magnificent, isn’t she?’ he whispered.
   He was, he told me, promoting the idea of declaring Tibet a Province of China the following November, to celebrate the Empress Dowager’s birthday.
   ‘I think the Old Buddha would like that,’ he remarked in jocular fashion. ‘After all, thirty years ago your Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli had Queen Victoria proclaimed Empress of India.’* * *
   That evening General Yuán and I dined together to discuss my findings and recommendations ahead of filing my final report. He held, he assured me, a very high opinion of Great Britain. Our ceremonial courtesies were ‘refined and civilized’, and we English ‘With our hands reaching high and our feet travelling far, we rise up like eagles and glare like tigers...’.
   The main course over, his expression became serious.
   ‘On the subject of our Royal masters and mistresses, how is Sir Sherlock progressing? Has he discovered the existence of a plot?’
   No, I told him. I repeated my comrade’s words, he had discovered ‘not a jot or tittle’ of a plot against Their Majesties.
   ‘In fact Holmes is becoming restless,’ I continued. ‘His bees are calling him home.’
   Yuán looked relieved.
   ‘If the greatest detective in the whole of England sees no sign of a plot, I think we must assume the rumour-mongers were wrong.’
   He said he would inform Their Majesties. He had no doubt they would agree to us setting off on the long journey home to England‘but your departure must take place when Her Imperial Majesty has consulted the Court of Astronomers.’
   The date must be of fortunate omen. That could take some time, he cautioned.* * *
   Back at my quarters the now redundant evening meal awaited me, a dish of lotus roots shredded and sweetened together with cabbage stewed with cucumbers and ginger. With the prospect of several days on our hands until spirits sanctioned our departure I opened a make-shift daily surgery in the cooler morning hours. The Temple’s only available consultancy room seemed to be a storage area for clocks. There were clocks everywhere, mounted or standing alone at every part of the hall, eighty-five in number. Within ten or fifteen minutes of every hour they chimed and played airs in eighty-five different ways.
   I soon discovered the Manchu are direct and open, and while the Chinese are imperturbable for much of the time they are natural pantomimists. There was little difficulty in gauging where a patient’s complaint lay. After politely expressing respect for my absent parents and other deceased ancestors they contorted their faces and used violent gestures to point me. Other patients clustered around with a charming gravity, in voluble conversation over my tricks with spatula or stethoscope, intervening at will.
   I made no charge to the poor though a donation was suggested from the better-off for Alicia Neva Little’s anti-foot-binding campaigns. The Manchu Empress Dowager regularly issued proclamations against the profoundly damaging practice of foot-binding much practiced by the Han, though with little effect as yet. I became accustomed to rows of silent amahs outside the Temple waiting to help their tottering foot-bound mistresses back to their sedans. As yet I have collected nothing for this cause. The Chinese do not pay doctors for their good intentions but in accordance with their results. For chronic ailments this takes time.
   I had an exceptionally disturbing visit from a woman who came from afar, carried pick-a-back to my door by a man servant and deposited on the bare floor. Both feet had mortified off through the barbarous practice of foot-binding. The man servant handed me a large jar filled with a clear liquid, an alcoholic beverage, in which I could see the dark-brown remains of her mummified feet. The tiny toenails had fallen away and swayed gently at the bottom of the jar. She was heart-rendingly sure a foreign doctor would fasten the feet on her again.
   Not once in these first few days did anyone bring a child despite the fact I could observe the entire gamut of childhood afflictions on a short walk along any of the Capital’s narrow, filthy lanes, or that dog-bites were everyday occurrences among young and old alike. I remarked to Wang Feng about the absence of child-patients. He pointed at the Aeroscope camera.
   ‘The Chinese believe foreigners take out children’s eyes and use the retro bulbar fat for photographs or worse.’
   One day during a lull in patients Wang bowed and said,‘Venerable and Respected Sir, Dr. Watson, I have a favour to ask.’
   His tone was diffident. I responded with an encouraging wave.
   He went on,‘I am ambitious. I want to become like Sir Sherlock. I want to solve the most difficult cases like you do in England. Catch criminals who offend against society. One day I aspire to become the yushi dafu, Censor-in-chief. I want to be the highest-ranking state official supervising and controllingthe officialdom of the Empire. Only then can I help wipe out so much corruption among our state officials.’
   ‘I commend your ambition, Wang,’ I replied, smiling at the rushed confession, ‘but how can I help?’
   ‘I was wondering if you could intercede with Sir Sherlock. The whole of China has heard of him. If he could spare time to teach me what he knows, the word would get around I was once the student of the greatest Consulting Detective in Europe. It would speed my advance. Otherwise,’ his face fell, ‘otherwise I shall never make my descendants as proud of me as I am of my esteemed ancestor the Judge Bao Zheng who lived nine centuries ago. If I am ever to live up to my family’s hopes I have to attain the highest degree, the jinshi.’
   He paused and said,‘You may wonder why I am only on the first rung. Purchasing sacrificial animals for the High Court is not an especially difficult exercise. By now I should be at least on Chung - purifying troops, salt control, inspecting frontier passes.’
   ‘Wang, you are very clever and your English is very commendable,’ I replied. ‘I have no doubt you can get to the top. Out of interest, why are you only on the first rung?’
   ‘In China, advance is achieved only if you pass the Imperial examinations. There are three tiers, local, provincial and Court exams. They are not based on scientific expertise. They are based on knowledge of the classics and literary style. There are many who blame the imperial system for China’s lack of technical knowledge and our defeat by foreign powers. I made my way easily through the preliminary examinations. I passed first inmy year for the degree of Budding Talent.
   Then my mother became ill. She died even though she was still young. We Chinese are entangled by the claims of family and the chains of immemorial custom. Piety towards parents is the greatest virtue. When a parent dies, we must mourn for twenty-seven months. Under Chinese law we are not allowed even to beget a son during those months. As a son myself I was obliged to follow the strict rituals of mourning. So I abandoned my exams and remained at home for more than two years.’
   ‘I’m sure Sir Sherlock will oblige any descendant of Bao Zheng,’ I told him.* * *
   My report was in the General’s hands. No word was forthcoming from the Summer Palace on when we could leave China. Holmes had discovered not the sniff of a plot against the Empress Dowager or the Emperor. To fill in the evening I attended the Crime Detection tutorial Holmes agreed to provide Wang.
   Holmes began,‘Depending on how long we remain here we shall cover a range of topics including how to avoid the Bull-in-the-China-shop approach to the crime scene so often a characteristic of self-styled experts in the art of detection. We shall discuss firearms identification, finger-print identification - the treatment of handwriting, paper and inks and features of documents, fibres and hair. Not a grain of dust should be moved, not a soul should be allowed to approach, no rummaging by investigators until the scientific observer has seen everything absolutely undisturbed andin situ.’
   Holmes gave a slight smile.
   ‘Investigating Censor Wang, today’s instruction will cover the autopsy. I realize the way we perform our autopsies may horrify the people of your country, nevertheless to us the autopsy is commonplace. It constitutes one of the most important processes in the detection of crime. The only invasion of the corpse you allow are silver needles inserted into the body to elicit evidence of poison if the silver turns black. That would not be accepted as credible evidence in Europe or America.
   Where a suspicious death has occurred the autopsy is a practice of great value and a necessity in the investigation of whether the deceased died through natural causes, for example myocardial infarction resulting from coronary artery disease, or from a particular injury - a bullet wound to the head, manual or ligature strangulation, poisoning, exsanguination caused by a stab wound, and so on.
   The Procedure: the pathologist weighs and measures the body, notes the subject’s clothing, valuables and characteristics such as eye colour, hair colour and length, race, sex and age. He removes the subject’s clothes, examines the body, searches for gunpowder residue, paint flakes or other deposits, or identifying marks such as scars or tattoos, and of course injuries. Bodily fluids - urine, blood, vitreous gel from the eyes, bile from the gallbladder - are extracted and sent to a technician for analysis for drugs, infection, or chemical composition. If necessary the pathologist removes and dissects the chest, abdominal and pelvic organs, and possibly the brain.
   The Organs: organs, especially the brain, are sometimes placed in formalin for days or weeks before the dissection is conducted. Finally, the body is lined with cotton wool and sewn shut with a special stitch. If the organs are to be returned to the body, they are placed in bags to prevent leakage. The corpse is then washed and prepared for the funeral.’
   Footwear.‘There is no branch of detective science,’ he told Wang, ‘which is so important and so much neglected as the art of tracing footwear marks. I place footwear high on a list of 40 evidence types,’ together with expert comment on gunshot residue, hand-writing, stains, dust, the shape and position of wounds, bite marks and a theory of cryptograms.
   A further technical session was titled‘Upon The Distinction between Ashes of Various Tobaccos’. To Holmes’s trained eye there was a great difference between the ash of a Trichinopoly and the fluff of Bird’s Eye shag tobacco. It was he who first studied a flake of Latakia and other tobaccos. Tobacco ash was hardly ever examined by the police except to say ‘There was someone here who smoked cigarettes.’
   ‘However,’ Holmes told Wang, ‘if you can say definitely that a crime has been committed by a man smoking an Indian cigar, that at once narrows down your search for the culprit.’
   A puff of chalk went up as Holmes slapped his hands together.
   ‘Tomorrow evening we’ll resume with a detailed description of physiological materials for identification, such as blood, hair, tissues and semen.’
   He turned to me.
   ‘Watson, for Mr. Wang’s edification, you may now take over on the topic of Evidence Photography.’
   I spent a half-hour describing the Dark Room for processing photographic materials, special lighting, luminescent tests for blood and so on.
   For the rest of the week Holmes presented an attentive Wang with a series of lectures which my comrade planned to incorporate more fully into his Magnum Opus-to-be,‘The Whole Art Of Observation And Detection’.
   It was quickly apparent listening to Holmes that by contrast with Scotland Yard detectives he paid great attention to the mundane. Mud and soil from various districts - Sussex clays, for example - would one day become classified much after the manner that Holmes was describing.
   The final session described the modus operandi of well-known English and Continental burglars, the tell-tale way they employed nickel-plaited jemmies, adaptable keys, diamond-tipped glass cutters, rubber-soled shoes and black silk masks. This practical method of instruction justified itself abundantly. Wang was proving an excellent student.
   There was no word as yet on when Holmes and I could pack up our goods and chattels and return to England.
   Chapter VIII
   I Receive an Urgent Summons from the Empress Dowager
   I was about to settle in for the night when I received an urgent summons to attend the Empress Dowager. I was to be carried in the dark the six miles to the Marble Boat on the grounds of the Summer Palace, the porters’ feet muffled with sackcloth to dull their noise in the empty streets. It turned out to be less a boat than a concrete two-story lakeside pavilion with fake paddlewheels on each side, imitating the sailing boats of the former Emperor Qianlong. Large mirrors were fixed on each deck to enable Cixito watch dragonflies floating over the pink chalices and velvet leaves of the lotus flowers as she sipped her afternoon tea according to the season, Dragon well green tea for spring, Jasmine Green tea for summer and Puer tea for winter.
   I was hurried aboard to find the Empress Dowager bending over the still body of a pug. Her voice trembling with emotion she begged,‘Dr. Watson, can you bring ‘Shadza’ back to life?’
   In answer to my quick questioning, the Empress said the Pekingese had shown signs of distress over a period of two or three days, with prolonged convulsions, severe metabolic acidosis and respiratory distress.
   The breed was of exceptional importance to the autarchs of China. Teams of eunuchs looked after the little dogs and bathed them. They were fed the highest grade rice and meat. They slept in marble kennels lined with silk cushions, guarded by their own eunuch.
   Over the centuries the Palace bred them smaller and smaller until the owners could carry the tiny creatures concealed in the billowing sleeves of their owners’ silk robes. In the 2nd Century Emperor Lingdi of Han conferred a scholarly title on his favourite ‘Lion Dog’, making it a member of the nobility, and thereby starting a centuries-long trend of honouring imperial dogs with noble rank. If an ordinary person happened to cross paths with a LionDog he had to bow to it.
   I bent down and pressed on Shadza’s rib-cage. There was only the slightest response. A cursory examination indicated the creature was beyond resuscitation. The symptoms pointed to a powerful toxin. Even while I kneeled at the dog’s side shaking my head there came the sound of breath exhaling and the animal was dead. The eunuchescorted me back along the passage and launched me back into the outer world. Such was the Empress Dowager’s grief, she ordered the entire High Court to go into three days of mourning.
   Back at our lodgings Holmes’s lanterns were still lit. I knocked on his door and put my head in. He had a copy of the North China Herald in his hand. Even here in China he read the English-language press avidly and took cuttings.
   ‘The Empress Dowager’s favourite dog Shadza,’ I said.
   The snick of office shears continued.
   ‘What about it?’
   ‘It’s died,’ I said. ‘Just now. Most likely poisoned. What’s so idiotic is they let it suffer for three or four days.’
   The Herald lowered.
   I continued,‘If I’d been called in at once I could have emptied the creature’s stomach in time to save it and perhaps discover what toxin it ingested.’
   ‘And?’
   Holmes was staring at me with an unusually alert expression.
   ‘That’s it. It’s dead. I offered to perform an autopsy to find out what killed it. The Old Buddha seemed quite put out at the idea of cutting it open. Presumably even the Palace dogs need to be intact when they mount the Dragon-chariot for the journey to canine afterlife. There were,’ I added, ‘some bodily fluids on the dog’s hair. I said by swabbing them I might be able to throw light on why it died. She refused even that.’* * *
   With the Palaces in official if insincere three-day mourning for Shadza I was able to decide my movements for myself. Wang Feng had noticed my impatience to return to England. He suggested a photographic subject for the‘off-duty’ afternoon. Would I please bring the Lizars 1/4 Plate Challenge camera. He wanted to show me a display of purple bamboo set in a mountain-water landscaped garden near the Imperial Canal.
   I found him at the water’s edge in conversation with a man holding a large Saker falcon with a bell attached. The acquaintance was from Huailai where falcons and goshawks are trained to hunt hares and game birds.
   ‘He’s on his way to the Palace,’ Wang explained. ‘Falcons bred in Hebei Province have been a part of aristocratic culture here for more than 600 years. This bird has been constantly exposed to people and human surroundings, and dogs used in the hunt. My friend will get the best price through Chief Eunuch Li. In turn Li will sell it on to a member of the Royal Court for five times more.’
   I beckoned Wang to a nearby bench. Before photographing the purple bamboo I wanted to question him about the Empress Dowager. I knew he was more at ease away from the prying eyes and hidden ears of the Forbidden City. Inside the city walls it was as though behind every stall, every partition, lurked a sharp-eared eunuch ready to report our words to the Summer Palace. Nevertheless, he picked his words carefully.
   ‘She is revered by millions,’ he replied. ‘They call her ‘the Dragon Lady’. Dragons have the characteristics of nine other creatures: a lion’s mane, scales like a fish, a long tail like a snake, claws like a hawk, eyes like a shrimp, antlers like a deer, a big mouth like a bull, a nose like a dog, a beard like a catfish. I must show you the Nine-Dragon Wall. Through their prowess, their ferocity, their beauty, and the harmony of the opposites, dragons excite awe and admiration. They live at the bottom of seas, rivers, lakes, or anywhere with water. Chinese dragons don’t have wings but they can fly into the sky. They don’t breathe fire but can summon rain. And like the tiger, if they so wish they embody the spirit and drive to achieve and make progress. They are regarded as one of the four super-intelligent creatures. The other three are the tiger, the phoenix and the tortoise. All people of the Middle Kingdom consider themselves the descendants of the Chinese dragon.’
   ‘Is the Dragon Lady’s reputation for pitilessness deserved?’ I asked.
   ‘Many say so,’ came the reply. ‘Certainly she has become fiercer since the outside Powers intervened to put down the Boxer Rebellion seven years ago. She fled in disguise. She was lucky to survive. The loss ofMiàn zi - Imperial Face - was terrible. She never wants that to happen again. Since then she has feared every day for her life. It’s said she no longer pays proper attention even to the people’s Memorials. If so it’s very bad for China - and for her. Without question she is most dangerous when her fears reach a crescendo. It is then she seeks blood.’
   ‘Does she have good reason to be fearful?’ I pursued.
   ‘In her mind she does. Many dissidents favour the restoration of the Kuang-hsü Emperor’s power because he is ready for change. She has set her face against change. She has disappointed many people, especially the young. Secret associations such as the Dragonflower Society conspire against her.Exiles everywhere - in Japan, America, Europe - are organising high-level assassination groups. The ones in Japan have formed connections with Russian anarchists who teach them how to make bombs. Even your and Sir Sherlock’s lives are at risk whenever you are with her.’
   He pointed at a small steamer moored on the far bank.
   ‘That was a present from Japan. Her Majesty named itYong-he - Forever Peace. Once upon a time she took it every day for the journey between the Summer Palace and the city. But she hasn’t stepped aboard since a well-known conspirator by the name of Tiejun found his way back to Peking from exile and clambered unseen up the anchor chain in the night, intending to attack her. He was spotted, arrested, transported to General Yuán’s garrison in Tianjin and eliminated in secret. Her Majesty can be very cruel. It’s said he died a very slow and painful death.’
   ‘But you say it was General Yuán who ordered the execution?’ I asked.
   Wang smiled wryly. A hand flicked towards the distant Summer Palace.
   ‘He gave the order but nobody is killed in such a terrible way without trial except on the explicit say-so of the Summer Palace. It is said, ‘Come bounteous dew and rain, or come the thunderbolt of wrath, all proceed alike from the Imperial will’. No-one feels safe. Even the eunuchs are beaten for little reason except to keep them in a state of watchfulness and fear. You see them walking around the Forbidden City with rubber mats around their backsides, just in case.’
   ‘Do you feel safe?’ I probed.
   ‘I?’ Wang replied. ‘Why not? What have I done to upset the Great Ancestress?’
   We began to wend our way along the canal to the small forest of purple bamboo. I asked,‘You say the Empress Dowager no longer pays attention to the people’s Memorials - what are these memorials?’
   ‘Communications written by provincial governors and sent direct to the Empress Dowager herself, with no mediation by the court or palace officials. They tell the truth about the bad conditions and official corruption. The secret memorials are transported under lock and key. The locks are from Europe.
   It’s dangerous that she ignores them now. How else can she or the Ch’ing state adjust policies to ensure the popular welfare?’
   Just as we were saying goodbye Wang’s usual enigmatic expression changed. With a conspiratorial air he said, ‘I forgot to tell you. All may not be right with the Empress Dowager’s health.’
   My ears pricked up.
   ‘Why do you say that?’ I asked.
   ‘Because of what I saw this morning. I am still making payment for my mother’s coffin, 10 taels every month...’
   His voice tailed away as he looked carefully in each direction.‘When I was at the coffin-maker early this morning making my latest payment a covered wagon arrived with a load of costly wood, thick sandalwood from Mukden and hardwood of the Phoebe nanmu tree from southern China. They say the wood has been curing in a concealed room in the Summer Palace. The moisture content will be low, ready for use.
   The wagon driver told me that during the night the wood had been placed in temples around the Forbidden City to be sanctified. I asked the coffin-maker who the auspicious boards (that’s what the Palace calls an Imperial coffin) were for. He shook his head and looked away. I commented the person must be very rich and powerful. He said that was obvious. I pressed him. He would only say the order had come with no prior warning and was to be completed with the utmost urgency. Hisbox-makers were about to apply the first coat of lacquer. The coffin-maker had heard the best tailors were under orders to work through the night to make grave clothes and satin cockcrow pillows. For three nights in a row eunuchs had been sent out to the provinces to muster twenty thousand bearers.Tradition calls for that number to convey a Royal catafalque to the Eastern Tombs. He refused to tell me more, under, he said, pain of both our deaths.’
   Wang gestured towards the Palace.
   He said,‘Surely - the auspicious boards can only be for one person in the whole of the Forbidden City - the Great Ancestress herself!’
   On the journey home I pondered Wang’s revelations. If his speculation proved true it must be through some sixth sense the Empress Dowager believed her death was imminent. She looked in excellent health at our last meeting.
   My thoughts turned to the young Emperor and the power he would presumably regain. I recalled my first impression of his slight and elegant figure the day after my arrival in the Forbidden City. Above all the long thin expressive hands. Later in a surprisingly intimate chat at the far side of the room from the Empress Dowager he told me,‘Ten years ago, for a hundred days I set China’s face towards the dawning morning of the future. But,’ he gave a gesture indicating his aunt, ‘sheprefers a land which faces always and everywhere towards the darkness of a remote past. She has always hated me. She tells everyone I lack filial respect towards her. She launched a Coup d’Etat. Yet it is I as Emperor who am divinely appointed, not the Empress Dowager.’
   Bitterness radiated from his face as he added‘It is I, as Emperor, who mediates the cosmic forces.’
   Angrily he spoke of his imprisonment at a nearby artificial lake, kept totally isolated from the rest of the Court.
   ‘In the middle of the Winter Palace Lake is an island, Ying Tai, or ‘Ocean Terrace’. That’s where the Divine Mother locked me up,’ he said with a shudder. ‘In a cold and soulless palace. All my faithful servants but one were put to death or banished. I saw no one except four guards and my wife who I knew was spying on me for Her Imperial Majesty.’
   The reference to his wife as more in the Empress Dowager’s service than his explained why she was never present when we met.
   At that point the Empress Dowager turned her face in our direction as though picking up some conspiratorial character to our conversation. I quickly asked whether the reforms he had tried to introduce would ever again be attempted. He repliedsotto voce,‘We have a saying, ‘Though a tree grow ever so high, the falling leaves return to the ground’.’
   His head inclined as he whispered,‘Therefore the circumstances might one day return, once ‘the tree’ falls to the ground.’
   With the saddest expression I have ever seen on a human face he continued,‘I was the second son of the Prince Ch’un. It was the Empress Dowager, she whom we callhuang taihou - Papa Dearest - who reached out and selected me for the Throne. Yet while she rides in a palanquin I am carried on a mule litter. When she gets angry with me she says‘The price of coffins is rising’ by which she means I would do well to commit suicide before a worse fate overtakes me. Like an evil spirit, she has stolen into my life, filling my days with dark forebodings and my nights with terror. If she had her way, two servants carrying plumped-up cushions and a silken cord would follow me into my bedroom the moment you leave my presence.’
   Tears flowed down his cheeks.
   ‘Dr. Watson, my soul would be left orbate in the Hall of Hades. As yet I have no heir to perform the ancestral sacrifices and worship at my shrine.’
   I asked,‘If Your Royal Highness does come to the end of your time on earth without producing a successor, who have you selected to succeed you, to take on the Mandate of Heaven?’
   He gave a wan smile.
   ‘It is well knownshehas already chosen. The choice has been taken from me. If a violation of the ancestral and House-laws is required, she isn’t a woman to hesitate. The name is written on three pieces of paper. There is a plaque in Manchu and Chinese over the throne in the Palace of Heavenly Purity. Behind it is a secret niche. One mandate is hidden there, in a small casket. Another she always keeps on her Sacred Person.’
   ‘And the third?’ I asked.
   ‘It can only be found after she mounts the dragon. She will place it inside the Imperial pillow in her death chamber. On her departure, the name on each of the three documents will be compared. If in agreement with each other the person inscribed will be announced heir.’
   ‘And you have no idea who it is?’
   ‘I have not been consulted,’ the Emperor replied.
   ‘So you have no idea at all?’ I persisted.
   His voice was growing weak. I bent nearer.
   ‘There is a clue.’
   He motioned towards the wizened, vigilant Chief Eunuch Li at the Empress Dowager’s side.
   ‘They say Li is busy. Even at this moment he is seeking out special wet-nurses. That can only mean one thing. She expects me at any time to become a guest on high, and that Hsuan-T’ung, the infant son of Prince Ch’un, is her favoured successor to the Throne of Heaven.’
   A cold, hard look had come over the Emperor’s face as he stared across at the Chief Eunuch.
   ‘Li delighted in humiliating me during my imprisonment, keeping me ill-clad and hungry. When I regain an Emperor’s rightful power, all those who treated me with such disdain know they will be beaten to death in the courtyards of the Palace. Therefore Li can hardly wait to clad me in the Robes of Longevity and pack me off to the ‘Nine Springs’.’
   The crestfallen Emperor reached out and took hold of my arm. His voice was now without much pitch definition, the face pale, the eyes heavy. He seemed to be in the grasp of some resistless, inexorable evil which no foresight or precautionary measure can guard against.
   ‘Unless...’
   He failed to complete the sentence. We heard the sound of a raised voice. The Empress Dowager was dispatching Li to join us. Speaking urgently, the Emperor said,‘Dr. Watson, our people do not believe in the concept of the divine right of kings. They believe a Dynasty lasts for as long as it has the Mandate of Heaven. The Mandate of Heaven has no time limitations, depending instead on the just and able performance of the ruler and his heirs. An emperor has to be a sage king. Before us the Ming and the Yuán and the Western Xia ran their course, exhausting the Heavenly decree. Am I now ill-starred? Has the time come for dragons to take flight and a new Son of Heaven to appear? Are we too looking at the fall of a dynasty, the Great Ch’ing?’
   Li was almost upon us. It was time for me to leave.
   ‘One request, Dr. Watson,’ came a whisper. ‘Which of your cases remains the most vivid in your memory?’
   ‘The Hound of the Baskervilles,’ I replied.
   His eyes flickered towards the approaching Chief Eunuch.
   ‘Be telling me about it as Her Imperial Majesty’s Chief Eunuch arrives,’ he commanded.
   Quickly I began, speaking loudly.
   ‘A member of England’s landed gentry by the name of Sir Henry Baskerville found that one of a pair of boots had gone missing from outside his London hotel room. He had left them for the boot-boy to wax. Soon this unassuming matter would lead Holmes and me to the Devon moors, the most mysteriousand atmospheric part of England. ‘I put them both outside my door,’ said Sir Henry, ‘and there was only the one the next morning.’ He had only bought the pair the previous day, at Walker Bros., and had never had them on.’
   Li was now at my side, his smile watchful.
   ‘I have a copy ofThe Hound with me,’ I told the Emperor.
   ‘May I read it?’ came the request.
   I said I would return to my quarters and place the book in a clamshell box for delivery to the Palace. I nodded at Li and took my exit.* * *
   The next morning I did a bunk away from appointed companions. The temple priests were striking their brass drums for morning prayer when four hired porters carried me on a litter back to the gate into the Tartar City, the Ch’ien-men. We progressed through bright courtyards flanked by rows of vermillion columns. Representations of the Double Dragons and the Flaming Pearl were everywhere, on the Imperial pennant, cut into stone, carved in wood, painted in pictures.
   At an intersection the porters halted to allow a group of horsemen to dash past, a splendidly attired young Prince riding in their midst on a red-saddled, handsomely caparisoned steed with purple reins and silver trappings. Around us Chinese and western society women stopped to watch, in hats of rice straw or blue harebell straw trimmed with costly ostrich plumes, velvet bows, osprey feathers and lace. On the return leg I filmed a torch- and lantern-lit procession and glowing tableaux in which a pair of illuminated dragons writhed into the court and struggled for the‘flaming pearl’ which flitted around beyond their grasp with elusive, fantastic movements.
   With our time in China coming to an end, I began to plan our sea-route back to England. An old Dutch sea-dog doing the sight-seeing rounds of the Capital told me it was 11,713 nautical miles from Shanghai to Southampton.
   ‘If the weather’s fair all the way, which is most unlikely,’ he opined cheerfully, ‘and if pirates don’t board you off Ceylon or the Red Sea, or the Gulf of Aden, or the Arabian Sea, which they might well, and if you manage a steady ten knots, which you won’t if you hit buffeting stormsin Biscay... which you will, or go adrift off the Isle of Wight like the Spanish Armada, it’ll take you the best part of fifty days.’
   Back at my lodgings a tall Chinaman had established himself in an easy-chair in the principal reception room. The absurd eyeglasses caught my attention, the lenses four inches or so in diameter, more like bull’s eye lanterns than rational spectacles. At his side lay a conical hat made from black felt, the rim turned upwards for about two inches all round, topped with a long tassel of red silk. At the end of his stretched out legs were black velvet boots coming up to his knees, with a thick white sole.
   He observed me in silence, his gaze solemn.
   ‘Holmes!’ I exploded incredulously, ‘are you about to take part in a performance of Gilbert& Sullivan’s ‘Mikado’? You don’t expect me to fall for that idiotic disguise twice in as many months! Those ludicrous spectacles are a give-away. No respectable Chinaman would dream of putting them on his nose. Why,’ I continued, convulsing with laughter, ‘you’ve forgotten the slab of teeth youwore in your Fortune Teller disguise. And what of the extra thumbs! As to that hat,’ I pointed at the floor, ‘you look like one of the witches in Shakespeare’s Macbeth!’
   It transpired it was not Holmes but a ranking Mandarin sent hot-foot from the Summer Palace. The period of mourning for Shadza was over. Would I meet Her Imperial Majesty on the morrow, in the Garden of Virtue and Harmony? She had something she wished me to see. The gentleman in front of me would escort me to her after breakfast.
   My embarrassment abated only slightly with the visitor’s departure. I considered the many times Holmes had fooled me with his remarkable ability to alter his appearance. It was not merely that Holmes changed his costume. His expression, his manner, his very soul seemed to vary with every fresh part he assumed. His new Chinese soothsayer disguise would work wonders in London. None of the criminal underworld would have seen him in it.* * *
   Her Graceful Majesty was in the Throne-Room when I arrived. It could have been‘Il Divino’ Michelangelo’s 16th century studio in Rome. Her diadem was composed from the snowy blooms of the fragrant jasmine, set with leaves and other small flowers instead of the real jewels they faithfully imitated. She was stirring a great bowl of India ink. Eunuchs had prepared large sheets of yellow, red and pale green paper. When the consistency and fluidity of the ink suited her, she was handed a large short-handled brush. The Princesses stood around, watching with interest.
   The hall fell silent. The Empress dipped into the ink. On some sheets she wrote the character‘Shou’ (Long Life) and on others ‘Fu’ (Prosperity). She appeared to take great pride in her firmness of touch and the accuracy of line. On another sheet, with beauty in the stroke, she painted a single great character some four feet long.
   Chief Eunuch Li appeared at my side. He said,‘As you see, Dr. Watson, Her Imperial Majesty is remarkably clever with her fingers.’
   A short while later, at a signal, Li packed the entourage out of the room like a herding dog shooing sheep. I was now the only person with the Empress Dowager in the immense Audience Hall. Our greetings completed, she began,‘Dr. Watson, I wish to be alone with you, to tell you things, to explain things. If I hesitate to say the things that are in my mind, how shall I face the spirits of the sacred ancestors when they greet me in the hall of Hades? By day and by night, in the seclusion of my palace, my thoughts dwellonly upon my people’s plight. My advisers tell me I am too good-natured and tender-hearted, that my extreme mildness of disposition puts my Dynasty in real danger. I should stamp hard on the secret societies which threaten me with death - especially the Dragonflower Society and the so-called Society of Justice.’
   With a troubled look she continued,‘I am beset by enemies. They would throw away the Empire as one who casts away a worn-out shoe. Their incorrigible wickedness renders them one and all deserving of death. The leniency I have shown them has but increased their arrogance. The number of these evil-doers has grown by reason of the tolerance extended to them. They circulate terrible pamphlets about me. They say the Manchus usurped the Chinese throne, stealing the country from its people, plunging China into stagnation and backwardness. The people say a non-Manchu life is of no more value to me than the life of a beetle or a fly.On the contrary, I think long and hard before I order someone’s execution. I never order Death by a Thousand Cuts. I consider it cruel.’
   She paused, tears in her eyes.
   ‘I know there are those who would overthrow me, even force me to kill myself by swallowing a lump of gold. They say I must be got rid of, or our country will perish. ‘Our’ country! How many of our subjects do they have dependent on their judgement? A handful at most. And I? 400 million. Such evil people refer to me as ‘The old rotten...’.’
   With great reluctance she added‘deadbeat’.
   She continued,‘I cannot imagine why those double-faced villains call me a...’ again she struggled with ‘deadbeat’. ‘We who are cheetahs, lions, while those who would replace us are jackals and hyenas. I sigh and weep tears of blood over this. I cannot tell you why they use that disgraceful word. We areat a loss to find the aim of such language as this. It is language altogether false and evil.’
   She pointed to an ornate yellow silk casket displaying a range of imperial seals made from white jade, agate, crystal and nephrite.
   ‘They even forge my Decrees and smuggle them out of theZijin Cheng sewn into belts. Now I have ordered all my decrees to be printed on special Imperial yellow paper and their contents made known throughout the length and breadth of my Empire.’
   She brushed her eyes.
   ‘These people are red-turbaned bandits, beetles enjoying a meal of snake’s brains. They are rats feasting on excrement. Ten years ago certain evil-disposed persons bamboozled the young and impetuous Emperor, self-proclaimed visionaries who indulged in the wildest notions. They wished only to force him to distort and discard the old virtues. For a while we listened to the siren-call of these so-called Modernists. We were in favour of reforms. We permitted certain energetic measures, especially ones intended to put an end to the many and increasing abuses of peculating officialdom which exist all over my Empire.
   These hooligans say they are the vanguard, but the vanguard of what? I ask you, is there one word from them concerning reverence for parents, or the cultivation of virtue and respect for the nine canons of rightful conduct? No! Is there one word from any of them as to the observance of ceremony, as to duty, integrity and a proper sense of shame, the four cardinal principles of our nation? No! It shows a will most incorrect to heaven. They would foster an indiscriminate assimilation of foreign things in their place, put new wine into old skins. Their polemics and warnings consume an enormous amount of rice paper.
   What do they care for the Canons of the Sages, they who mock the virtues of loyalty and filial piety?’
   She swung an arm down as though stabbing at the invisible enemy.
   ‘They are demonic soldiers who fight for darkness against the light. I pray the God of Thunderbolts strikes them dead.’
   Her voice deepened with scorn.
   ‘They proclaim the Ch’ing body has expired, that it’s time for the soul of the Manchu to hie back whence it came. Yet it is they, not we, who are the ne’er-do-wells.They drive the tiger out by the front while the wolf is admitted by the back. Like thieves hating their masters they spin intrigues to close our eyes and ears, to fetter our hands and feet, to cloud our mind.
   These visionaries, these Modernists! They are like the poem of the six blind men of Indostan - one grasped the elephant’s trunk, another the tusk, another the ear, others a leg, belly and tail. And what was the result?’
   To my amazement, in a high pitch she began to recite from the poem, turning her eyes to the sky.‘And so these men of IndostanDisputed loud and long,Each in his own opinionExceeding stiff and strong,Though each was partly in the right,And all were in the wrong!’
   In a harsh voice she continued,‘Dr. Watson, you may say my emotion is out of proportion but I cannot find it in myself to say a kind word about them. Even bees and ants know how to obey and follow. And what, you may ask, has led to this deplorable state of affairs, this degradation of our Dynasty’s reputation? I shall tell you. When the Kuang-hsü Emperor was very young I was implored by all to stay in the High Court, to share the reins of power with the Emperor. A Coalition Throne. For as long as he lived, Imperial authority and responsibilities should be shared between the Emperor, the princes and ministers, and me. I assented reluctantly. I would put off a happy and peaceful retirement.
   But our nation’s strength was being eroded by this arrangement. Peking lost the willingness and ability to rule actively. Instead the Coalition Throne merely attended to the daily Court routine. It behaved like the ant who cannot see the size of the sky.
   We became divided into theti-tang - the Emperor’s faction - and thehou-tang - my faction. We mired ourselves in precedents and antiquated rules instead of exploring policy possibilities. We ourselves undermined and depleted the very essence of leadership. Everything was referred to board ministers andad hoc court conferences for discussion. This delegation of power reached as far down as the‘shu-li’, the low-ranking clerical staff. Their whims in turn shaped the Throne’s deliberations. The Emperor, whenever he saw my back turned, connived to open the avenue of opinion to the lowest and humblest of our people when he is no more than an imperial apprentice aspiring to the master’s supremacy. It was a shirking of responsibility on the part of the Imperial decision-makers.
   This was never the way of the Ch’ing Dynasty. I ask you, Dr. Watson, if you had run your affairs that way, with so many cliques and parties and factions, would England have conquered a quarter of the world from your tiny island, penetrated with your guns far into Africa and South America and now our territories, and forced yourtrade upon us? Wouldn’t your Good Queen Bess turn in her grave at the very thought? China too has only been respected as an equal by the peoples of the West during those periods when she is under the sway of a Dynasty able to compel the allegiance of all sections of the country. Over Canton as much as Peking. South of the Yellow River as well as north of the river.’
   I looked around. To my surprise, so attentive had I been to the torrent of words, I realized we had quit the Palace and were now outside in a beautiful garden.
   Suddenly a direct question came my way.
   ‘Dr. Watson, my entourage observed you speaking in lowered tones with His Imperial Majesty. May I ask what you discussed?’
   I knew her Chief Eunuch had caught only the last part of my conversation with the Emperor.
   I replied,‘His Majesty wanted to know more about Sir Sherlock’s famous cases. I recommendedThe Hound of The Baskervilles. I had my copy delivered to him that same evening.’
   ‘I see,’ came the reply.
   For a moment she was silent, brooding. Then she pointed at a magnificent lotus pond, about an acre in extent.
   ‘If I am taken away, how long do you think that will remain?’
   She spoke witheringly.
   ‘What dothey care for beauty? Within a month they would turn that pond into a paddy-field. Soon these secluded paths would be covered by mallow-weeds and wild oatgrass. And those flower beds. Return tomorrow and turn your film camera on them so the world will have something to remember them by - within a week of my death they would become cabbage patches.’
   She pointed at a distant edifice.
   ‘I have something to show you over there, at the Hall of Bathed Virtue. My porters will take you there. I shall join you within the hour.’
   Chapter IX
   I am Shown the Giant Jade Seismograph
   The Empress Dowager arrived precisely on time. She had changed her headdress. It was an exquisite example of Chinese decoration, the small phoenixes emerging from the surface representing Royalty while countless pearls and gemstones marked her as the highest-ranking woman in Chinese society.
   We entered the Hall of Martial Valour complex and were led by the Empress Dowager’s jaunty new favourite Pekingese ‘Hailo’ past a bronze seated figure of Zhenwu, the Supreme Emperor of the Dark Heaven, into the Hall of Bathed Virtue. The room was tiled, with the well, boiler and pipes of a Turkish-style bathing facility, lit by enormous candles of walrus fat and owl-shaped lamps containing sufficient oil of dolphins to keep the wick alight for two hundred years. Wrought enamelled vases held bouquets of jewelled flowers. Sculpted images were scattered around the room, some in straw capes and bamboo hats, others in full armour. One wore the garb of a Confucian student. Disconcertingly one of a row of nine medium-sized grey parrots on a long perch just inside the entrance blinked at me. I had assumed from their rigidity and silence they were made of clay.
   I was brought to a glass-fronted cupboard filled with objects accumulated over several Dynasties.‘The Cabinet of Resurrectionism,’ the Empress Dowager told me. The upper shelf held a Short Snouted Seahorse tooth, a Woolly mammoth thoracic vertebra, a large coprolite of a carnivorous dinosaur discovered by a Professor Xu Xing, purportedly from the recently-namedTyrannosaurus rex, and a Chinese bronze astronomical mirror, cast around the centre with 12 shallow discs surrounded by an eight-pointed circle representing the periods of the solar year.
   The Empress Dowager pointed to the far end of the Hall, at an immense block of ornamental rock about five feet in height. The elaborately carved circumference depicted jade being transported from its native mountains.
   ‘That’s what I’ve brought you here to show you,’ she said, inviting me forward. ‘The eunuchs call it the Magic Mirror.’
   The‘magic mirror’ was a cistern full to the brim with water, with a golden cup and chain attached. She waved her hand over the placid surface, alarming some dozen golden fish expecting to be fed.
   ‘Nobody except me dares enter here,’ she remarked. ‘Not because I have so commanded but because of this water-bowl.’
   A six-inch long fingernail tapped at the jade sides.
   ‘The people say it is the haunt of Erlang Shen,’ she continued, ‘the god with a truth-seeing eye in the middle of his forehead. The people say I only have to oblige someone to drink the Water of Truth and he cannot help confessing. Even the threat of being brought here has elicited confessions. Others believe it is watched over by a ghost we call Yuán gui, the spirit of a person who died a wrongful death. They say the Emperor Xianfeng, my deceased husband whose bowl this was, was held face-down in the water and drowned. Such ghosts roam the world of the living as depressed and restlessspirits, constantly seeking to have their grievances redressed.’
   She dipped the gold drinking vessel into the water and handed it to me.
   ‘I see by your silence this must be nonsense to you. You in the West are losing your belief in spirits. What do you suppose I really use it for?’
   I had seen similar though far less ornate water-tanks in India, made from simple sheets of lead.
   ‘To cool the hall in summer?’ I offered.
   ‘You were present at the Battle of Maiwand, isn’t that so?’ she asked,
   ‘I was, yes,’ I replied.
   I was surprised the Empress Dowager had heard of the battle. It took place in the summer of 1880 to the west of Kandahar. The wound I received from a muzzle-loading Jezail bullet at that terrible event forced a monumental change in my life.
   ‘How many cavalry did your enemy possess?’ the Empress Dowager pursued.
   I replied,‘Three thousand.’
   ‘And the ground shook long before they were upon you?’ my host continued.
   I nodded.
   ‘Yes. The ground shook as though a great earthquake was taking place right under the mountains around us.’
   Her finger dipped into the still water in the jade cistern. Tiny circles radiated from it.
   ‘For my birthday celebrations five years ago,’ she continued, ‘I had ten thousand Manchu horsemen conduct a mock battle against each other at the West Gate. The vibration of the water in the Magic Mirror informed me within seconds of the start. At that same moment an outrider was dispatched to inform me. Even by the most direct route, at full tilt, it took him twenty minutes.’
   She went on,‘Just before that an enemy invaded the city. I had to flee this Palace. I was lucky not to have been killed. A look-alike was designated to sit on my throne ready to commit suicide to confuse the attackers, dressed in clothes and jewellery identical to mine. She had no time to do so. That twenty minutes would have given her time to swallow the opium and me adequate time to make my get-away.’
   We had known in Europe for some years that horizontal pendulums can detect waves from large earthquakes halfway around the world within 12 to 17 seconds. Far from being the well-spring of mysterious voices from the Other World or the lair of a Truth god, the jade cistern was a gigantic seismograph.
   She held up her hands, fingers up stretched.
   ‘The Imperial Bodyguard was composed of the Regiment of the Divine Mechanism, and the Tiger Spirit Regiment - both Manchu Regiments - but I knew neither was likely to make a stand against a determined enemy. I cut off my long nails. I fled without most of my jewels. My soothsayers tell me one dayanother enemy will return to the outskirts of the city in the night, ready to charge the moment the sun comes up. I come here to feed the fish and study the Magic Mirror’s surface every day at dawn, the time an attack would start. The vibrations will give me just enough warning to get away.’
   I put the golden cup back on the cistern.
   ‘Now tell me, Dr Watson,’ the Empress Dowager asked, pointing at the water, ‘has Sir Sherlock found any sign of a plot against me? You have drunk from the pool of Erlang Shen. You are compelled to tell the truth!’
   ‘I can tell you without peradventure, Madame,’ I replied, with a slight bow, ‘neither Sir Sherlock nor I have found any sign whatsoever of a plot against Your Imperial Majesty.’
   ‘What about the Emperor?’
   ‘Nor against the Emperor, I assure you,’ I replied. ‘In fact, with your permission we plan to leave your country soon. Sir Sherlock becomes easily bored when he doesn’t have a gripping case in hand. He thinks it’s time he returned to tend to his bees.’
   We were turning to leave when a dust-covered apparatus to one side of the hall came to my attention, a cast-iron penny arcade machine.
   ‘I say,’ I burst out at the familiar object, ‘isn’t that a ...’
   ‘It’s a...’. The Empress Dowager hesitated, forming the unusual word carefully. ‘Mu-to-scope.’
   I was familiar with the Mutoscope from youthful visits to seaside piers. Drop a penny in the slot and spin a handle which turned a wheel carrying up to 680 photographic prints in a flip-book. Each photograph was in full view until it was pushed forward by the force of the flicker-cards compressed behind it.
   With a noticeable frisson she added,‘We call it the lantern of fright. It can make people appear or disappear. It projects spooky images that look like apparitions. That’s why it has been left here. No-one dares go near it, not even to destroy it.’
   She continued,‘It’s said that in evil hands it can make Dynasties fall and create new ones to take their place. In the hands of bad people...’ again, with a shudder, she spelt out the syllables carefully, ‘...Mu-to-scopes can bring the spirits of people long dead back to life. It tortures them by obliging them to repeat again and again and again, in exact detail, actions they undertook in life.’
   She pointed to a pile of flicker-books on a small table at the Mutoscope’s side.
   ‘Those boxes. If you don’t believe me,’ she said imperiously, ‘take a look for yourself!’
   I took one and placed it in the machine. Our late great Queen Victoria and other dignitaries were drawing up in a carriage outside a grand building. A young woman came down the steps to present the Empress of India with a bouquet of flowers.
   ‘You see why people fear that contraption!’ exclaimed the Empress Dowager. ‘The bouquet of flowers - is alive! Yet we know they must long since have lost their bloom and returned to the earth. Your Queen - alive! But you and I know she died six years ago. She would now be mere bones yet that box has captured her soul. It can make her draw up in that carriage again and again, for ever. How can she go to the after-life when her soul has been trapped in this infernal machine!’
   ‘Madame,’ I replied, sensing an opportunity to relieve the tedium of the remaining evenings, ‘Sir Sherlock and I would appreciate the opportunity to view the rest of these boxes. Is there a chance...?’
   ‘The contraption will be delivered to your rooms,’ came the response, ‘together with a hammer. When you have finished destroy it. No one in all Peking dares to raise a hand against it - even at my command.’
   At the exit, as though recognising we were speaking English, the nine parrots opened their black bills and in unison - in English - squawked‘Hear And Obey!’* * *
   Back at my rooms I picked up the copy of‘Alice In Wonderland’ and flipped through the pages. Mycroft Holmes had underlined several of the Red Queen’s dramatic exclamations to a startled Alice.
   The first was,‘In the wrong hands, you’d be surprised what magic can do.’
   This was followed by‘How would you like to have your head hacked off?’
   And lastly,‘There’s no use trying,’ Alice said; ‘one can’t believe impossible things.’ ‘I daresay you haven’t had much practice,’ said the Queen. ‘When I was younger, I always did it for half an hour a day. Why, sometimes I’ve believed as many as six impossible things before breakfast.’* * *
   The following morning my medical services were called upon in a most unexpected way, not at the make-shift clinic among the clocks but at the Emperor’s Palace. I dropped in on Holmes to tell him about it. Although it was by now mid-day my comrade was still in his purple dressing-gown, seated cross-legged on a hard, flat cushion covering a kang, a long rectangular fireproof brick structure the height of a bed. A small writing-table had appeared, equipped with ‘the Four Treasures’: a bamboo-and-sheep-hair brush-pen, a compact black ink-stick, a pile of white blotting-paper and an ink-stone. Ancient Egypt was engaging his interest. Not content with learning the six fiendishly difficult types of Chinese logographs, the book he held indicated he was now deep into the Coptic script.
   A hand appeared from one side of the book waving me to a sofa.
   ‘I trust your morning has been of interest?’ I ventured.
   He continued to attend to matters Coptic.
   With a soupçon of self-importance I said, ‘Certainly mine has been of great interest. I have just returned from treating a patient.’
   ‘Indeed?’ came the muffled reply. ‘How unusual for a medical doctor. Did you know that Coptic and Demotic Egyptian are grammatically closely related to Late Egyptian?’
   ‘A rather important patient,’ I retaliated.
   I waited a moment or two.
   ‘My patient,’ I added, ‘was the ninth Ch’ing emperor to rule over China.’
   My comrade managed another‘Indeed?’ without a sideways or downward movement of the book.
   ‘Yes, the Kuang-hsü Emperor himself,’ I continued.
   The book moved sideways a fraction.
   ‘I deduce,’ Holmes responded, ‘you intend to throw aside all concern for your Royal patient’s confidentiality. Given the undeniable truth of the Watson family byword, that ‘brevity is the soul of wit’, I shall ask for what ailment?’
   ‘A broken eardrum,’ I replied. ‘Suffered only this morning. Aboard his steam launch. Luckily my otoscope survived the long journey here. I’ve patched up the ear with cotton-wool and a bandage and told him to rest for a few days.’
   I related how a young eunuch wearing the crystal button and feather of the fourth rank had arrived at the end of my morning surgery. The Emperor needed me at once. A covered litter waited in a nearby alley to take me incognito to his Palace. Secrecy was enhanced by a long, heavy, white silk Chinese gown to cover my European clothes and a hat with an attached false pigtail.
   ‘I felt like a Jesuit,’ I joked.
   I described how I had worried that if the Son of Heaven’s sudden affliction meant he was beyond remedy, western medicine would be held to blame if he passed on to the Nine Springs on my watch. Instead, I had found the slight and elegant, if dishevelled figure lying on a splendid couch inlaid with cloisonné, both hands cupped around an ear. The youngeunuch was winding the royal pig-tail around the Emperor’s head to keep his hair out of the way for my inspection. When his master turned his head completely around I saw the whole of one side of the face was scorched. Small pieces of black feathers had attached themselves to skin and hair.
   ‘Holmes,’ I continued, ‘you’d never guess in a thousand years how his ear came to be ruptured.’
   My old comrade had a clutch of ways to pull down the house curtain when he wished to be left alone. He murmured,‘Good of you to warn me, Watson. I doubt if I shall live that long. You have saved me that much time trying to think up the answer.’
   The book on Coptic script moved back into place.
   I eased myself forward from the comfortable sofa and stood up. With Holmes in such a non-communicative mood there was nothing else for it but to return to my own quarters and continue writing up my Nature notes for Sir Edward Grey. I wouldn’t need to see the Emperor for a day or two. The bandage should help keep the eardrum dry and ward off infection. At most he would suffer hearing loss in the damaged ear until the membrane re-sealed.
   At the door I mused aloud,‘The Emperor suffering a broken eardrum is quite a coincidence. He’s the second such patient in as many days. I’ve never attended two patients for this affliction so close together, other than in battle.’
   The book fell forward.
   ‘Asecond person?’ Holmes asked. ‘Tut, tut, Watson! Why didn’t you tell me this immediately?’
   ‘No more than an odd coincidence,’ I protested.
   ‘Odd coincidences should be noted with special attention,’ came the instant reply. ‘Tell me more.’
   The sudden interest took me aback. Was this Holmes at his sardonic worst?
   Warily I repeated,‘Two in as many days. Yesterday I treate done of the small eunuchs for exactly the same trauma.’
   ‘How did it come about?’ Holmes asked, with a keen look. ‘The eunuch’s injury.’
   ‘A sharp cuff for misbehaving. People don’t realize how easy it is to...’
   ‘And the Emperor?’ Holmes interrupted. ‘How washis eardrum broken?’
   ‘He was attacked by a crow.’
   Holmes brow furrowed.
   ‘How exactly would a crow... I presume the fellow didn’t let a crow sit on his shoulder and peck through an eardrum?’
   ‘An exploding crow. No doubt launched by misguided youths. For amusement the young eunuchs trap crows and attach exploding bamboos to the birds’ legs,’ I explained. ‘‘Exploding bamboos’ is their name for firecrackers. The fuse is lit and the crow released. The wretched animal thinks it’s free and flies straight up into the air. When it gets to about sixty yards into the sky the firecracker detonates, blowing it to pieces. It crashes to the ground, followed by a shower of black feathers. I saw one dispatched this way the other day.’
   ‘If the crow flies straight up...’ Holmes began, ‘...how did the one which attacked...?’
   ‘In the Emperor’s case it didn’t fly upwards. It flew straight to him and landed on his shoulder at the very moment the firecracker went off.’
   As I spoke the words‘the firecracker went off’ Holmes’s lips tightened. His nostrils quivered.
   ‘And you say the eunuch’s eardrum was broken by a hard cuffing. Do you know who administered it?’
   ‘The E-D’s Chief Eunuch Li Lien-ying.’
   Like a spring uncoiling Holmes leapt off the kang. He snatched his outdoor cape from the hat-stand.
   ‘Watson,’ he shouted, ‘take me to the Emperor - at once!’
   I snorted.
   ‘My dear fellow, ‘I told him, ‘I realize you’ve been hanging around a lot, waiting for something to happen, but for heaven’s sake don’t start clutching at straws. If the crow was meant to kill the Son of Heaven, I can tell you in two words why it would have to be a plot devized by the most incompetent assassins in all history!’
   ‘And those two words?’
   ‘Black powder. The firework was filled with black powder. That alone militates against an assassination plot. Most of China’s assassins have been trained by Russian anarchistsin Białystok bomb laboratories. Anyone with the slightest knowledge of explosives knows black powder creates a powerfulblast of air - enough to break an eardrum - but it would never have sufficient explosive force to kill.’
   ‘Watson,’ came the sharp reply, ‘by now you should know there is nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact. If I can question the Emperor we may hit upon other ‘obvious facts’ which may by no means have been evident to you.’
   At this he swept out of the door.
   I called out,‘Aren’t you a little quick in forming your conclusions? And shouldn’t you change your clothing? That dressing-gown is sticking out from under your cape.’
   The words came back,‘I repeat, Watson, take me to the Emperor - into your coat and come!’ followed by ‘I need to hear the man’s own account of the matter.’
   With excitement in his voice, those familiar ever-wonderful words came floating back:‘Methinks at last the game’s afoot!’
   Chapter X
   The Emperor Tells Us of the Crow Attack
   KouLiancai, the young eunuch I encountered earlier, was waiting at the great door to usher us in. He was the last of his master’s once-numerous eunuchs-of-the-presence. The Kuang-hsü Emperor was still in open air dress. The Emperor’s long hair had been brushed, the front edge of the scalp and whiskers freshly shaved in accordance with Manchu custom. Immutable tradition didn’t allow any man under forty, even a Son ofHeaven, to sport whiskers or a moustache. A large umbrella and a hat with a plain red silk button lay at his feet. One hand was scraping at remnants of feathers and black powder on the right sleeve of the yellow cloak. His face brightened at our arrival.
   It was my comrade’s first close encounter with the Emperor. Holmes stood momentarily silent, as though studying a wax effigy at Madame Tussauds, taking in my patient’s outdoor mantle and the articulated belt formed from panels of emeralds and dangling pearls, on down to the white velvet socks peeking out from black boots edged with green satin.
   Little darting glances showed me the interest Holmes took in our out-of-the-ordinary companion. Our many years’ association enabled me to detect subtle shades of expression perceptible to no-one else.
   ‘Your Majesty,’ Holmes exhorted in Mandarin, précised for my benefit in quick asides in English, ‘for your own safety, kindly allow me to question you as if you were a mortal. We must eliminate any chance the damage you received to your head was not an accident, nor merely the outcome of a jape gone awry. I must know exactly what happened. Please start from the beginning.’
   The Emperor gave his assent. His voice was small, like the buzzing of a fly.
   He had spent the previous night in the Purifying Palace in the Great Park of the Nature Temples in preparation for the day’s sacrifice ceremony. The routine began at 5am. He washed, dressed, had his queue plaited, had a smoke and a quick breakfast. A sedan-chair and eight porters carried him to the Palace to confer with the Empress Dowager. It was her express intention to join him aboard the Imperial steam-launch, theShishaquita, for the short journey to the Wanshou Temple, the Temple of Imperial Longevity.
   After he performed the nine prostrations and other proper acts of obeisance to Her Majesty in the presence of the Court she reminded him the hour was arriving to sacrifice. From the Palace he was taken on the customary ride to the dock in a heated palanquin borne by four eunuchs. A further eight eunuchs marched in front carrying lanterns and a large gold spittoon. The route took him out of the Forbidden City by the West Flourishing Gate to the West Garden Gate leading towards the Lake Palaces, and then around the southern shore of the lake. As usual he dismissed his entourage, ordering them to return in three hours.
   He waited at the gang plank for the Empress Dowager to join him. At this point a note arrived saying there was a change of plan. A soothsayer had revealed the day was especially propitious for the Great Ancestress to travel to the Eastern Ch’ing Tombs, some distance to the south-west. She would travel there under the protection of General Yuán. The Emperor was therefore urged to continue on his journey to the Temple alone.
   ‘It was obligatory,’ he explained. ‘The Emperor is not only the High Priest and Son of Heaven but the expiator for all the afflictions Heaven visits upon his people.’
   No, he saw nothing untoward in the Empress-Dowager’s change of plan. He was fully sympathetic. Ancestor worship, he explained, requires rulers to make regular supplication at the tombs of their forebears to beg their protection. When her time on earth was up, his aunt would be interred near the sepulchre of her imperial lord, the Xianfeng Emperor. Today’s journey might be as much a search for a propitious site for ten thousand years for herself, near Mount Putuo, one of the Four Sacred Buddhist Mountains of China, as offering supplication at the forebears’ tombs.
   With a slight smile he speculated,‘Now she is more than seventy years of age she might be anticipating her own encounter with King Yan, the God of Death.’
   ‘So you went ahead with your duties without Her Majesty?’ Holmes prompted.
   ‘Deferral of my duties was not an option. The day, the hour, are determined by the Abbot of the Temple.’
   ‘Did anyone accompany you aboard the Royal launch?’
   ‘No-one.’
   ‘You were utterly alone aboard theShishaquita?’ Holmes queried with an odd look.
   ‘Except for this eunuch at the engine, yes,’ the Emperor confirmed.
   He explained it was the fixed custom of the Praetorian guards to wait for him at the Paifang, a traditional Chinese archway, where theShishaquitawas moored. The guards failed to turn up. The flat boats which follow the steam-launch at a respectful distance carrying portable stoves and the necessary arrangements for making tea also failed to materialise. More surprisingly, so had the musicians who would play the Imperial Hymn on completion of his prayers.
   ‘A passer-by told me they were waiting there and then they left.’
   ‘How do you explain that?’ Holmes asked.
   ‘They must all have been needed by Her Majesty and General Yuán.’
   Despite the pain from the shattered eardrum, he managed another smile as though some affectionate thought had touched him.
   ‘I could tell ‘the Old Buddha’ felt embarrassed at leaving me to journey alone.’
   Holmes leaned forward. His eyes had the hard, dry glitter which shot from them when he was keenly interested.
   ‘How?’ I gathered he was asking.
   My patient’s wrist bent back, his fingers motioning at his cloak.
   ‘We call this abeizi,’ he explained. ‘It’s my aunt’s, the Empress’s. It arrived at the dock in a box with the note.’
   The note implored him to don it on the launch,‘knowing how damp the air can be’.
   ‘I did as she wished,’ the Emperor added. ‘The engine started. We pushed off.’
   His hand rose to the bandaged ear.
   ‘TheShishaquita was halfway to the Temple when I heard a wooshing sound. I felt an evil spectre brush against this side of my face. I saw black glittering eyes. A large crow was settling on my shoulder. We believe a crow flying low across one’s path when one is on an important errand is an omen, good or bad depending on the direction it crosses. From left to right is good.’
   ‘And the direction of this crow?’ Holmes continued.
   ‘It came across the water from the right. From right to left is very disadvantageous. I turned away, fearing it would peck out my eyes. Before I could sweep it off my shoulder there was a terrible bang and the smell of gunpowder. For a moment I could see nothing through a black cloud. I realized the crow must have had a cannon cracker tied to its leg.’
   He pointed at the eunuch.
   ‘That’s what some of these young people do. That’s how they amuse themselves. At first I felt nothing. Then a sharp pain told me the explosion had damaged my right ear. I could only hear the sound of the engine with my left ear.’
   He continued,‘I was so distraught I believe I would’ve had some sort of fit if blood had not gushed from my nose and relieved me.’
   To my consternation Holmes chose this charged moment to ask a most inconsequential question. He pointed at the cloak.
   ‘You say Her Royal Highness sent you a beizi. This outdoor garment you’re wearing, can we confirm this is the one she sent you?’
   ‘It is,’ came the assurance.
   ‘Wouldn’t you keep a feng ling on theShishaquita?’
   ‘A windproof cape,’ Holmes explained in a quick aside.
   ‘More than one,’ the Emperor agreed, ‘but coming with the note from Her Imperial Majesty, wearing the beizi was the equivalent of an order.’
   ‘The crow,’ Holmes pursued, ‘were you known to it?’
   A look of disgust crossed my patient’s face. He burst out, ‘Known to it? Not at all! I won’t let crows anywhere near me. I find them very disturbing.’
   I smiled sympathetically. Even in England we say‘A crow on the thatch, soon death lifts the latch’, the superstition a lone crow over a house foretells a death within.
   ‘So you cannot explain why a crow should fly at you and land on your shoulder?’ my companion asked.
   ‘I cannot,’ came the reply.
   At that moment the Emperor’s faithful eunuch raised his hand. He was glued to a tiny window in the great door. He called something back in a hurried whisper.
   ‘The Empress Dowager and General Yuán,’ Holmes translated. ‘They have returned early.’
   ‘Perhaps news got to them of the accident,’ I hazarded.
   ‘Perhaps,’ Holmes replied. ‘Whatever we do, we must give the impression we consider this exactly that, an accident. If it was not, if it was a deliberate attack, the plotters must be kept confident of their safety while we gather up the clues. Are you quite, quite clear on this, Watson?’
   ‘Yes, Holmes,’ I said, smiling broadly, ‘I shall have no difficulty in that. We don’t seem to have so very much to conceal. I’ve no doubt at all it was an accident.’
   ‘If you say so, Watson,’ my comrade exclaimed, his tone heavy with irony, ‘but if villainy is at work, we shall want to lay our hands on the knaves, not frighten them off.’
   He turned back to the unfortunate Emperor. In a whisper, he asked,‘Your Highness, is there anywhere in this Palace where you can rest up for a few days, somewhere no-one, not even Her Imperial Majesty, can come upon you unobserved?’
   The figure before us looked taken aback but pointed upwards.
   He switched to perfectly comprehensible English.
   ‘Up there. A bolt-hole. It can be reached unnoticed by a hidden staircase. On special occasions I ask lama priests to hold services. No-one else has ever entered it. I plan to hide there if ever the Forbidden City comes under sudden attack.’
   ‘And this young person,’ Holmes asked, pointing at the eunuch. ‘Kou Liancai. How certain are you of his loyalty?’
   ‘He’s the only eunuch in the whole of the Purple City who isn’t a spy in the pay of the Old Buddha. I would trust him with my life,’ the Emperor confirmed.
   ‘Then you shall. He and he alone must be empowered to bring your food to you and taste it. No-one else. He must allow no-one in, no-one at all. Have your meals left with Kou at the foot of the staircase. Draw shut every curtain. After they leave you today, not even Her Imperial Majesty or GeneralYuán must be allowed to see you until,’ he pointed at the black powder residue on the Emperor’s face, ‘that has completely rubbed away.’
   A further call came from the eunuch, the tone rising in urgency. Swiftly Holmes turned to me and issued the most dumbfounding - and on the face of it utterly irresponsible - command.
   ‘Watson, quickly!’ he gesticulated. ‘Remove the bandaging from the Emperor’s damaged ear and apply it to the other ear. Cover as much of the blackened side of his face with bandages as you can. Then Kou must turn down all the lamps surrounding your patient.’
   To the Emperor he said,‘Your Majesty, when my friend has adjusted the bandages lie back with the blackened side of your face to the wall. Keep it hidden from anyone entering the room.’
   He added,‘Most important of all, no matter who is about to come in, you must have your hands clasped to the ear the Doctor is about to bandage, your good ear. Do you understand? Hold your hands to it as though it’s that ear causing great pain, not the other.’
   I protested,‘Holmes, may I remind you of my Hippocratic oath. Asking me to switch the bandages to a perfectly good ear - how absurd can you get? If infection sets in he could lose some of the hearing in that ear. And besides, it’s no ordinary people approaching the door, it’s the Empress Dowager and General Yuán!’
   Holmes’s years in retirement with his bees had not smoothed his impatience. His face blazed with anger.
   ‘Your Hippocratic oath be damned!’ he barked. ‘The risk of any loss of hearing in one ear may be the trade-off for saving His Majesty’s life! I repeat, do as I ask -immediately! If this has been an assassination attempt it’s far too soon to rule anyone in, but equally...’, he paused, looking towards the door, ‘it’s far too soon to rule out anyone. I repeat,anyone.’
   To my relief the Emperor gave a slight inclination of the head. In his remarkably adequate English he said,‘We must not question any of Sir Sherlock’s orders, must we, Dr. Watson. After all, he is Europe’s greatest consulting detective,’ adding with an attempt at a smile, ‘however bizarre his request.’
   The Emperor swung his shoulders to allow me to switch the dressing to the other ear. It caused a colourful metallic design woven into the cloak in the middle of the Emperor’s back to become apparent, the red gold, emerald green and peacock-blue sigils glinting in the light. Holmes took an involuntary step forward. He pointed a bony finger.
   ‘That circle of dragons on Her Majesty’s beizi. If I’m not mistaken they’re composed of the wing cases of theGoliathus cacicus - the jewel-beetle.’
   ‘You are correct, Sir Sherlock,’ came the reply. ‘The Summer Palace imports such beetles from the same region as the Timneh parrots, Africa’s Gold Coast.’
   ‘Would you happen to know who stitched them on?’ Holmes asked.
   ‘I have no doubt it was Her Imperial Majesty herself,’ the Emperor answered. ‘She is famed for her seamstress skills. As a young girl she was called the ‘the goddess of the needle’.’
   While this curious exchange was taking place, with great reluctance I switched the bandages. At Holmes’s instructions my patient turned the afflicted ear to the wall. The black powder residue on the side of the face was completely obscured in the shadow.
   The Emperor reached up and took me by the wrist.
   ‘Dr. Watson,’ he whispered. ‘I need to stay alive. If this was an attempt on my life, you and Sir Sherlock from the great country of Ying-ji-li must discover the culprit. There are many who resist my plans to modernise China. They wish me ill. They must hurry. They are my adoptive Mother’s strongest supporters but they sense she does not expect to live much longer.’
   I replied, keeping an eye on the door,‘What would make them think she expects to die soon?’
   ‘She has already established the title by which she wishes to be canonised. It contains twenty-two characters, six more than she was born with. Of those six - which she herself added - the third and fourth mean ‘Equal of Heaven’ which places her on a footing with Confucius. The fifth and sixth raise her higher than the Sage for they stand for ‘Increase in Sanctity’. Confucius was only ‘Manifestor’. She is therefore prepared to go. When and if she does depart, I can set plans in train once more to modernise my nation...’
   He looked fearfully towards the great door‘...but my followers fear the Obstructionists plan to transform me into ‘a hanged ghost’, the ghost of a person who dies due to suicide or execution. If I die first...’
   ‘Your Imperial Highness,’ I burst out, ‘I can assure you your life is not endangered in the slightest by a broken eardrum! Your aunt is Regent at best? Can’t you assert yourself? After all, you are the designated Son of Heaven.’
   The sound of agitated voices came closer. He motioned towards the door and whispered,‘My position is desperate. We have a saying, ‘He who is not accustomed to train savage beasts should do nothing to goad them to fury’. I am like a man who rides a tiger, who hesitates whether it’s more dangerous to continue his ride or to jump off.’
   He looked up at me with a great sadness in his eyes.
   ‘Without your and Sir Sherlock’s concern it may be the extinction of my line.’
   A tumultuous knocking followed. At Holmes’s signal the eunuch Kou gave way. The Empress Dowager burst through just ahead of General Yuán, shouting ‘He isn’t dead, is he? Not really dead!’
   She came to an abrupt stop at the pathetic sight of the Emperor. He looked back at her like a deer in the shadows, a hand held against the bandage covering his good ear, wincing as though that was the orifice causing him torment.
   Holmes bowed.
   ‘Never fear, Your Majesty, His Highness is very much alive. A crow carrying a firecracker. A misfortune. Horseplay. The left eardrum has been damaged, nothing more!’
   He pointed at the bandaging over the good ear.
   ‘As you can see, my colleague Dr. Watson has done all that’s required. His Majesty will be as good as new once the bandages come off.’
   I felt General Yuán’s touch on my elbow. He stepped back, motioning me to join him.
   ‘Doctor,’ he asked in a confidential manner, ‘your medical opinion, please.’
   ‘The eardrum is quite badly perforated,’ I replied.
   ‘Is it life-threatening?’
   ‘Not at all!’ I replied. ‘That I can assure you.’
   ‘How long will it take to heal?’
   ‘Altogether a few weeks. It must be kept dry to ensure the tear heals without infection. In time, the hearing should be fully restored.’
   ‘A crow carrying a firecracker attacks His Imperial Highness,’ the General mused. ‘Does Sir Sherlock believe his own words when he calls it horseplay?’
   In a low voice he continued,‘This may be no game. What if it was not ‘a misfortune’?’
   ‘By which you imply...?’
   ‘No-one would use black powder when gelignite is easily available. A true assassin could easily have charged the firecracker with the sort of explosive we use for rock-blasting. That would have sent chunks of the Sacred Head flying across the waters, even sunk the launch.’
   ‘I haven’t understood what you...’
   ‘What if it’s a conspiracy dreamt up by the Emperor himself?’
   I gave the General an incredulous stare.
   I asked,‘Why in Heaven’s name would the Emperor organize an assassination attempt against his own person...?’
   ‘Because the Son of Heaven has been simmering since the Old Buddha demoted him to the unhappy lackey you see before you. This is the Middle Kingdom. If this is a plot there may be method in their madness. There are many who look to put China’s long and backward past behind her. It’s not impossible he hopes to regain authority by prompting a violent uprising against the Conservatives. A damaged eardrum might be worth enduring in return for the untrammelled power he once possessed.’
   He gave a small jerk of his chin towards the Empress Dowager.
   ‘If this gets out and hotheads among the Moderates and Progressives interpret it as a premeditated attack on the Emperor’s life, they will become inflamed. They will blame the August Mother. They will say she’s trying to rid China of their figurehead once and for all.’
   ‘General,’ I countered, raising my voice, ‘you have just heard the opinion of the greatest Consulting Detective in Europe. A cruel past-time gone wrong. Probably some eunuchs at play, nothing more.’
   As intended, the Empress Dowager caught my reassuring words. With a curious choking laugh she said,‘But say this was not a game - say it was an assassination attempt. It failed, but that does not mean they are not among us, here in Peking, ready to try their hand again. They are cunning beyond compare! Tomorrow I shall send out an order to kill every crow across the whole of the Empire, destroy every one of their nests, cut down every tree they nest atop. This new weapon must never be employed in my Empire again.’
   She pointed at the beizi.
   ‘Take it off,’ she commanded the Emperor. ‘I shall have it destroyed. Otherwise I will always associate it with the misfortune you’ve just endured.’
   His Majesty glanced quickly at my companion. Holmes gave the smallest of nods. Without exposing the blackened side of his face the Emperor slipped off the cloak and held it out to his aunt.
   It was time to leave. We backed away towards the exit. Reaching the door I found myself alone. Holmes had fallen a pace or two behind. He was staring back with rapt attention at my patient. The Emperor was almost obscured behind the bent-over figures of the Empress Dowager and the General. The Son of Heaven’s hand jutted out from between them, clenched except for the index finger. The finger was moving round and round, tracing a circle in the air.
   Seconds later Holmes and I were back outside.* * *
   It was the Hour of the Dog, after day but before night, when we clambered back into our carriage. The Forbidden City was clearing of traffic. The nightly call came from the Palace of Heavenly Purity at the centre of the Forbidden City -‘Draw the bolts, lock up, careful with the lanterns’. Vendors of old iron were tying up their stock and humping it away. Barbers clipped the last of the day’s toenails. Itinerant cooks fried the last of the grease-balls. Crows left their daily pickings and flew off to roost. The monotonous chant of the water coolies ceased. As the final drawn-out sounds of the call died away, a thousand doors and windows slammed shut.
   In the privacy of the carriage I said pointedly,‘The Empress-Dowager seemed greatly concerned for the Emperor’s well-being.’
   ‘She did, didn’t she,’ Holmes agreed cordially.
   ‘Commendable,’ I pursued.
   ‘Very,’ came the reply, followed by ‘What did Yuán say when you asserted it was all a prank gone wrong? I heard you...’
   ‘He agreed it couldn’t have been a serious attempt on the Emperor’s life. Even before I myself said so, he pointed out that no trained assassin would use black powder when gelignite is easily available.’
   Holmes threw me a curious glance.
   ‘That’s what he said? And then?’
   ‘He came up with a most absurd proposition. He wondered whether the whole thing was set up by the Emperor, aiming to trigger an uprising among the Modernists and restore himself to power!’
   ‘Ingenious idea, Watson,’ Holmes replied in a thoughtful voice. ‘‘Hic iacet Arthurus, rex quondam, rexque futurus’. Here lies Arthur, king once, and king to be. According to Sir Thomas Mallory’sLe Morte d’Arthur, that was the inscription on King Arthur’s tomb.’
   He continued,‘Such a conspiracy theory would certainly explain the use of black powder rather than a more powerful explosive. You’re positive your friend’s words were ‘no trained assassin would use black powder when gelignite is easily available’?’
   ‘Precisely those words,’ I assured him.
   ‘Before that, you say you made no reference to the type of explosive charge?’
   ‘That’s correct, Holmes,’ I replied.
   Holmes reflected before posing another question.
   ‘That beizi, Watson. The Emperor’s aunt had hardly been there two minutes when she snatched it back. Did that surprise you?’
   ‘Why should it surprise me? She’s known to be extremely superstitious. What’s so strange about wanting to destroy it after an incident like that?’
   As I spoke my eyes strayed to the streets outside our carriage windows. I noticed uniformed men swarming into the streets.
   ‘Look, Holmes, the guards. Those are troops of the Beiyang Army, under Yuán’s personal command. They’re being quadrupled. He must believe an uprising is at least on the cards.’
   My companion glanced out and began to hum a tune. Holmes was musical and much attached to his Stradivarius. I listened carefully. Brahms 2, the lighter third movement.
   I said with a smile,‘It could be improved with a couple of Flugelhorns pitched in B-flat.’
   The humming ceased. Holmes frowned.
   ‘What could?’
   ‘That piece by Brahms.’
   After a further pause Holmes continued,‘The crow. Why didn’t it fly straight up in the air when it was released, as you would expect? What do you make of it flying straight to the Emperor’s shoulder on the launch?’
   ‘I haven’t the faintest idea why it did so,’ I replied.
   A string of questions followed, more as though Holmes was interrogating himself than expecting answers from me.
   ‘The Palace guards...why do you suppose they failed to wait for the Emperor at the Paifang?’
   I shook my head.
   ‘Or the disappearance of the flat boats carrying portable stoves?’ Holmes continued.
   ‘Again, not the faintest. Have you?’
   ‘My dear Watson,’ he said, with a touch of impatience, ‘try a little analysis yourself. The use of black powder in the firework, what do you make of that?’
   ‘I presume black powder is often used in fireworks.’
   ‘So we agree with the General - if this were an assassination attempt a much more powerful explosive should have been used?’
   ‘Certainly,’ I replied.
   ‘None of these matters strike you as suggestive facts?’
   ‘No, Holmes. At least not sufficient to raise suspicion of an assassination plot, rather the opposite.’
   ‘The cloak the Empress Dowager sent the Emperor to wear aboard theShishaquita–and snatched back. What do you make of that?’
   From long and often hurtful experience I knew that any matter Holmes returned to–especially one which appeared insignificant when first mentioned - might prove later to be a clue of exceptional importance. Holmes’s powers of observation and speed of inference had always been a source of undiminished wonder. He perceived relationships between facts which to others remained unconnected and without meaning. As it was, I had no idea why he had returned to something so inconsequential, even trivial, as the beizi.
   ‘I did wonder at the lack of embroidery,’ I offered hopefully.
   ‘Well noted, Watson!’ my comrade exclaimed. ‘The scarcity of embroidery is extremely interesting. That one patch, what did you make of it?’
   ‘The fact the dragons were sewn from the wing-cases of jewel-beetles imported from the Gold Coast? I don’t find that surprising. Rare and costly items flow in to the Forbidden City from all corners of the globe.’
   Holmes frowned.
   ‘I was not so much concerned with the source of the wing-cases so much as the use of the elytra themselves. How much do you know about jewel-beetles?’
   In my days in India I had often seen representations of birds and animals stitched from insect wing-cases in ornamental fashion.
   ‘As it happens, Holmes, I replied, ‘I do know something about them. The forewings of certain beetle species are used in jewellery and embroidery all across the Indian sub-Continent. Why shouldn’t they be used in exactly the same way here?’
   ‘Then let’s consider another fact about the beizi. Did it surprise you how well it fitted the Emperor? Didn’t this singularity make you look at the mantle more critically?’
   Thoughts of dinner were concentrating my mind. I replied, my brow knitting,‘Holmes, I was far too busy being a doctor to check such extraneous detail as whether the beizi fitted him or not!’
   ‘Your term ‘extraneous detail’ is most interesting,’ said Holmes with a slight smile. ‘I wonder what else you failed to note? You still say the Benevolent Countenance sending the beizi to safeguard her nephew’s lungs from the damp air was a kindly gesture, nothing more?’
   ‘I would call it a kindly gesture, yes,’ I replied.
   The carriage came to a halt at the entryway to our quarters at the Temple of the Loyal and Virtuous. After the driver had been dismissed I returned to our conversation.
   ‘Holmes, you ask what else have I failed to observe - let me tell you what I have observed! You continue to deduce from no solid evidence whatsoever that it was a deliberate plot against the Emperor’s life. You string together a hundredweight of assumptions to make a ton of evidence. Even if I agreed with you, which I do not, we can both agree with General Yuán in one conclusion at least. The would-be killers failed. Badly. I repeat, if they exist they must be rated among the most incompetent assassins who ever lived. To use black powder hoping to blow someone’s head off... no wonder it failed! We know from schooldays the Chinese were responsible for four great inventions: the compass, papermaking, printing - and gunpowder. Even the most juvenile member of the Brotherhood of Assassins would know a gunpowder firework would damage an eye or ear, blacken the skin - but kill?’
   ‘You say failed, Watson,’ Holmes returned. ‘I say far from it. I say there is evidence of premeditation and careful planning in this bizarre little event. I shall assume whoever is behind the firecracker attack has achieved exactly what they had in mind. I say there’s a life still threatened, the Emperor’s. Sir Edward Grey called him China’s best hope to avoid collapse into civil wars and outside intervention. We now need to work out what next the assassins plan. We must safeguard the Emperor at all costs.’
   I grimaced, wondering if here in this strange land even my old comrade-in-arms could be out of his depth. In England he would make much of codes and ciphers, footprints on the floor, blood-stained weapons. Here in China we had none of these familiar clues. Just the remnants of the unfortunate crow and Holmes’s obsession with the beizi.
   ‘Come, Holmes - are you really saying all that palaver took place simply to shatter an eardrum?’
   ‘Not any eardrum, Watson. The Emperor’s. Humour me. For the moment let’s take a working hypothesis that it was merely Act One.’
   ‘If shattering his ear was the sole aim of the attack,’ I replied, ‘it’s simply inexplicable.’
   ‘Unless, rather than the brotherhood of incompetents you suggest, we are up against a singular mind, a brain equal in complexity to any we’ve ever encountered.’
   ‘Including the deceased infamous Professor Moriarty, the greatest enemy we ever encountered?’ I replied, teasing.
   ‘Perhaps,’ came the unexpected reply.
   Questions whirled through my mind. Far from clearing matters up, Holmes’s succession of facts added fresh elements to an ever-deepening mystery. Why was my comrade making so much of how well the beizi fitted the Emperor? Why could it be of the slightest importance that the Empress Dowager snatched the cloak back, saying she would destroy it? And why was it less important the jewel-beetles were sourced at great cost all the way from the Gold Coast than the fact the Empress Dowager herself may have sewed them on?
   ‘A final question before we go to our rooms and prepare for dinner,’ Holmes said suddenly. ‘I heard the General ask you how long it takes a ruptured eardrum to heal. I didn’t catch your reply.’
   ‘About two months to seal completely,’ I replied. ‘If no infection sets in, the patient can be out and about in four or five days, as long as he keeps the damaged ear dry.’
   ‘How often do you plan to check on the royal progress?’
   ‘If you are asking me to continue my part in this absurd sham, I could visit him any time. Tomorrow even. I would look forward to it,’ I added sarcastically. ‘In all my years in medicine I’ve never had the experience of changing perfectly clean bandages on a perfectly good ear.’
   ‘Tomorrow would indeed be opportune, dear chap.’ Holmes replied, ignoring my caustic tone. ‘When you see him, I have a particular question I want you to ask.’
   ‘Which being?’
   ‘Does he have an orchard of his own?’
   My jaw dropped.
   ‘An orchard of his own?’ I repeated. ‘Why on earth would you...?’
   ‘Don’t forget,’ my comrade cautioned.
   ‘I shan’t forget,’ I responded, perplexed.
   Holmes added,‘Tomorrow, before the cock crows four times, we must pay a visit to the stretch of water looking out on the Temple of Imperial Longevity. Where the steam-launch is moored.’
   ‘May I ask what time it’ll be when the cock crows four times?’
   ‘The Ifugao tribe of the Philippines state that cocks crow four times during the night, with the third cockcrow at around four o’clock in the morning. And you, my dear friend, what do you plan for this evening? Another of Clark Russell’s sea stories? Working on your report for the General?’
   ‘Not the report. It’s already in his hands,’ I replied with satisfaction. ‘Every ‘i’ dotted, every ‘t’ crossed. Eighty-five recommendations. We can set off for England any time.’
   ‘Eighty-five recommendations! The topper most being...?’
   ‘On no account to deploy his tatterdemalion forces to pick a fight with any country for at least ten years. Except Nepal perhaps. Not even with our old friends, the Baker Street Irregulars with their catapults. By the way, I also mentioned in the most complimentary terms what an apt student we’ve found Wang Feng to be.’
   Holmes had begun to move towards his quarters. His head jerked round.
   ‘You did what?’ he returned, concern in his voice.
   ‘I mentioned your lectures, Holmes. I added a few complimentary words about Wang, how he grasps what we mean when we speak of justice for the people, trial by a jury of one’s equals, how a presumption of innocence is the cornerstone of British jurisprudence. That sort of thing. How surprised hewas to learn that no-one, not even the King of England, is above the Law.’
   ‘Did you, Watson,’ Holmes responded, his eyes narrowing. ‘Did you indeed? Will Yuán have read those complimentary words by now?’
   My reference to Wang seemed to cause him dismay.
   ‘I presume so. I submitted the report three days ago.’
   ‘I assume it’s too late to retrieve it and scrub those words?’
   ‘It’s too late, yes, but why should I do so?’
   Holmes turned away without responding.
   ‘One last thing for you to mull over this evening, Watson,’ he called back. ‘The General mentioned black powder before you confirmed it. How did your friend know the firecracker was filled with black powder? The Emperor’s damaged side was deliberately obscured in deep shadow from the time he and the E-D arrived. How could he be so certain?’
   ‘Most probably a guess,’ I countered. ‘After all, Yuán could see the Emperor still had his head on his torso. With the crow on his shoulder, anything more powerful than black powder would have blown him to smithereens.’
   On an excuse I chose to dine alone. Afterwards I went for a stroll in the Temple gardens in the moonlight to think it all out anew. Holmes’s last question made me realise what a hopeless tangle I was in. I returned to my rooms to refresh my fuddled senses with a cup of tea, to no avail. It was high time to start on the long journey home. I’d been on trek for more than three months, much of it arduous. I had captured many sights of Peking and its hinterland on the Aeroscope. Only one reel remained.
   Chapter XI
   We Search for Clues by the Lake
   Dawn broke. My sleep had been fretful. Holmes said cocks in the Philippines crow just four times between sunset and sunrise. It seemed to me the cocks of Peking crowed all night. The Empress Dowager and the sages-in-ordinary were laboriously consulting their books for an auspicious day for our departure. They seemed in no hurry. General Yuán was no longer making himself as available to me as before, though he had thanked me profusely. He was, he told me, working carefully through my report with its multiplicity of recommendations and I would be well rewarded. Despite Holmes’s evident suspicions I saw no signs of a malevolent plotagainst the Son of Heaven nor, as General Yuán seemed to be implying, by the Emperor against his aunt.
   I pulled a pipe from my pocket and stared reflectively into the empty bowl. For Holmes to compare incompetent assassins who couldn’t distinguish between blasting jelly or black powder with Professor Moriarty, the most cunning and destructive foe we had ever faced, was, well...at the least hyperbole of a high order, even risible. Before my comrade sent Moriarty plunging to his death at the Reichenbach Falls, the latter was dubbed by Holmes himself ‘the Napoleon of crime...organizer of half that is evil and nearly all that is undetected in this great city of London...A genius, a philosopher, an abstract thinker... the controlling brain of the criminal underworld’.
   Who here in the Purple City, I asked myself, could even remotely approximate a brain which might have made or marred the destiny of nations had not Holmes hurled him into the foaming waters of those waterfalls in distant Switzerland 16 years ago, a shattering event I recorded inThe Final Problem?
   The sun had hardly cleared the oxblood-red walls of the Forbidden City when Holmes arrived at my door equipped with a green, white and mauve umbrella. We exchanged good-mornings and set off to where the Shishaquita was moored. At the small dock there were no guards and no sign of anyone aboard. Holmes left the umbrella with me while he hurried up the gangplank. He returned a minute later holding up an oilskin cape which he swirled from back to front and front to back like a bullfighter’s cape.
   ‘This,’ he said, ‘is a feng ling. Compare this to the beizi the Emperor was wearing. What strikes you most?’
   ‘The material is very different,’ I replied. ‘This feng ling is a lot sturdier, but you’d expect that. It’s designed for heavy weather.’
   ‘Can you spot a further difference?’
   I studied the garment.
   ‘I’m sorry, Holmes. I can’t. It’s also yellow like the other. What are you referring to?’
   ‘The hood. This has a hood. The Emperor’s beizi didn’t.’
   ‘And that’s important?’
   ‘I believe so, yes,’ came the cryptic reply.
   He threw the oilskin back into the hold.
   ‘Let’s take a walk along the bank. I have an idea I’d like to explore. In the rustic days of your youth no doubt you dabbled in the fine art of poaching - committing offences against the Salmon Fisheries Acts?’
   Poaching! Decades fell away at the word. During the long summer school holidays my mother placed me on small farms for an agreed weekly payment. Those halcyon summers were spent exploring hedgerows and streams, spotting Scottish Crossbills, breathing the air of a freedom experienced only in one’s youth, returning to the farmstead in time for a filling evening meal of soup and chunks of home-made bread followed by the sleep of the innocents. There, in the Cairngorm Mountains, on the banks of Shee Water, my angling started with a net, a willow wand, a bit of string, and a crooked pin, mycatch lamprey, perch and the occasional sparling.
   By the time I was twelve I graduated to larger game as an apprentice to a professional poacher. The two of us worked the river with a couple of dogs, as silent as Basenjis ourselves, slipping unseen through a copse at dusk or slithering along the river bank to a trout-filled pool.
   My childhood adventures were now a set of snapshots in my memory - a cock-pheasant winging down from the branch of a beech to sun himself, thecrex crex of corncrakes from the meadows, their presence betrayed only by their voice -waiting impatiently with Barry the Poacher to climb the high stone walls into the 6th Duke of G_____’s estate. Then up and over and away into the night, dogs, wires, gill nets, snares and the trusty old flintlock with the barrel filed down, soon crouched in reeds, knee-deep in water. Or lying full length in the grass next to a waterfall, slabbering dogs at our side.
   ‘See under that overhang?’ I could hear old Barry’s voice whispering. ‘There, in that hollow. Two salmon. Resting before their final effort to reach the spawning beds. The smaller one, he probably weighs just four or five pounds, but that other one, in the shadow. I reckon it’s twice as big.’
   However intent we were on our quarry, it was imperative to keep eye and ear open for rustling in the undergrowth for the Estate gamekeeper, a careful and successful preserver of game and a fine shot.
   Holmes’s voice cut into my reverie. He was peering intently around us.
   ‘Let’s say you were a poacher somewhere along here. There’s fish a-plenty in the waters. Where would you hide?’
   I studied the river-bank. The drooping branches and interlacing roots of willow trees form the perfect hide on the edges of rivers and lakes.
   I pointed.
   ‘Those willows,’ I replied.
   At the very moment my finger fell back there was the faint flicker of a fishing line.
   ‘Holmes,’ I breathed. ‘Thereissomeone there. May I recommend the method used for catching us poachers in my youth? Pounce fast from behind while shrieking like banshees!’
   The old trick worked wonders. Within seconds our present quarry was wriggling in my hands like a trout, a barefoot lad in worn-out trousers. While Holmes questioned the boy, two fish gawped glassily back at me from the lad’s bucket. Finally my comrade said, ‘Watson, you can free our young poacher. The young man admits he comes here almost every day. He was here yesterday morning. He says he heard a dull thud, presumably the Mandarin cracker. He was too terrified to step out from the hide to investigate. The penalty for poaching the Emperor’s fish is immediate strangulation by the eunuchs, or at the very least the bastinado.’
   ‘Have you asked him if he knows why there were no guards at the dock yesterday to meet the Emperor?’ I enquired.
   ‘I’m about to,’ Holmes replied, settling himself companionably next to the shaking boy and speaking to him in Mandarin.
   Few Chinese expect a foreigner to cope with their language. Our captive stared back at Holmes in amazement. His expressive face indicated‘It’s almost as if this man is speaking Chinese, though of course it’s impossible...it must be a mirage’.
   My comrade spoke in a‘lingua franca’ Chinese, a Peking-inflected Mandarin. Not for the first time envy was tinged with overwhelming admiration for Holmes’s exceptional ability with tongues. In preparation for my trip I had obtained a copy of Jane Rowbotham Edkin’sMandarin Phrase-Book& Vocabulary. The slightest alteration of tone or inflection completely changes the meaning of what appears to be precisely the same word, Mrs. Edkins explained. If you say tāng with a high tone it means soup. However, táng with a rising tone means sugar.* * *
   Among the clump of willows, the boy’s responses came in anxious rushes. He arrived before sun-up, as usual. He settled into this favourite place where his fishing tackle was normally impossible to spot. Today he had been careless or we would, he told us, never have spotted him. He knew the Emperor was due to go to the Temple the previous day because he saw the Palace guards waiting at the Paifang. To his surprise they formed a line and marched away. Yes, this was before the Emperor came. No, he didn’t know why they left. There was nobody else around. He had risked staying longer to fish because the barges which usually accompanied the Emperor across the water hadn’t turned up.
   Holmes stood up. Our captive looked palpably relieved we weren’t going to tear off a limb for breakfast.
   ‘When I say there was nobody else around,’ the boy said suddenly, ‘I mean there were no Chinese, only a ‘Fan-qui’.’
   I had already learnt the word Fan-qui. It was a not-especially complimentary term for a westerner. It originally meant a devil who’d assumed human shape.
   The small captive gestured towards the Imperial quay. The Fan-qui had arrived on a steam-launch. He spoke a few words to the head of the guards.
   ‘That’s when the bannermen lined up and left,’ the boy told us.
   ‘And the Fan-qui?’ Holmes asked. ‘What happened to him?’
   ‘His steam-launch took him away.’
   ‘What did he look like, this foreigner?’
   ‘I couldn’t see his face,’ our captive replied. ‘He must have had a bad cold. He held a handkerchief over his nose and mouth all the time.’
   Holmes asked,‘How did you know he was a Fan-qui then? He was much too far away for you to hear him speaking.’
   ‘His clothes,’ came the reply. ‘He wasn’t wearing Chinese clothes. He wore a flat straw hat on his head like some foreigners wear. And his jacket.’
   The boy’s finger drew invisible lines up and down.
   ‘He wore a jacket with blue and green and red stripes.’
   At Holmes’s translation I blurted out, ‘How amazing! That’s identical to the outfit I suggested General Yuán should order from Lock’s.’
   That night I reflected on the young Han’s words. My conversation on poaching with Holmes left me with a deep sense of nostalgia. I stared up at the ornate ceiling, reflecting on the mid summers of my youth, weeks mellow and immemorial, the hayfields awaiting the scythe, the grazing meadows alive with white bonneted girls and sunburnt boys with flowers in our caps, milk-pails waiting, silver white among the nettles.* * *
   Early on the morrow a sedan came to take me to the Emperor for his medical check-up. It took place in his claustrophobic secret room. Again my patient looked pleased to see me. The young eunuch brought us tea. To maintain the charade I changed the perfectly clean bandages on the good ear while inspecting the damaged one. I was keen to obtain an answer to Holmes’s peculiar question, ‘Does the Emperor have a private orchard?’
   I began,‘Your Highness, sunlight has a therapeutic value. Now the weather is favourable I recommend you take an occasional afternoon resten plein air.’
   ‘Certainly. It was ever my practice.’
   ‘Do you have a favourite spot?’ I pursued. ‘Where you can be entirely private? For example an orchard?’
   ‘My favourite place is indeed in an orchard,’ came the reply.
   He described how when he was a boy, exhausted from his studies of philology and philosophy, he fell asleep in a meadow approached through a dense grove of arbor-vitae. In a dream he fell in love with a beautiful woman. The red ribbon attached to her glittering headdress indicated she had met a violent death. When he awoke he was obsessed by her.
   ‘She was beautiful beyond belief. Whenever the burdens of the day overwhelm me, I return to the exact spot under a pipa tree to refresh myself in sleep.’
   The Emperor loved the tree, now 30 feet tall, he told me, because of its sweet-scented flowers and red mulberry trees, and delicious fruit. Over the years the meadow had grown into his private orchard. With his own hands he planted cherry trees and maples and red mulberry trees, grouping them in colourful masses. At determined points he grew Chinese dates (Jujubes) from the seed of 1000-year-old wild trees in Shandong and Shaanxi, winter peaches, plums and pears from seed brought from the Yellow River valley.
   ‘Is anyone allowed to approach you among these trees?’ I asked.
   ‘Without my permission, no-one. Not even this eunuch, though...’
   The Emperor’s glance went to the door.
   ‘...when I fall asleep my mouth drops open. Sometimes Her Imperial Majesty delights in approaching me quietly and popping a bonbon in my mouth for when I wake up.’
   With a slight smile he added,‘Perhaps her intention is for the sweet to stick to my mouth and prevent me from talking too much to the Reformers.’* * *
   In the evening I went in search of Holmes. He was sitting on the flight of steps leading from our Temple quarters. He greeted me perfunctorily, with the frown of someone deep in thought. After several minutes’ silence, I ventured,
   ‘It’s a pity the young poacher couldn’t be more helpful. He saw nothing of the attack on the Emperor.’
   ‘My dear chap,’ Holmes replied, ‘his description of the Fan-qui was helpful enough. Even if he’d observed who-ever set the crow loose on the Emperor, you know how unreliable such testimony can be. An eyewitness will swear under oath there were seven dacoits firing pistols when it was one man with a life-preserver. Many times around the dinner table you yourself tell how your batman Murray reported the bullet fired from a Jezail rifle at the Battle of Maiwand hit you in the right shoulder when everyone can deduce from your stiff left arm it struck you on the opposite side.’
   After a moment staring at me thoughtfully, Holmes asked,‘Can you go back over your encounter with Yuán at the Emperor’s Palace after the General and the Empress Dowager rushed in? You spoke with him,’ he prompted. ‘Remind me. What was the gist of the conversation?’
   ‘Nothing of any value to your case, Holmes, I can assure you,’ I replied. ‘At the end I told him neither you nor I regarded it as any sort of attempt on the Emperor’s life. Then the Empress Dowager beckoned Yuán to join her at the Emperor’s side and that was that.’
   ‘Good, Watson. Well recalled,’ Holmes responded. ‘But just before that - remind me again - Yuán said what to you...?’
   ‘He asked if I thought a plot of exceptional cunning could be developing. ‘After all,’ he said, ‘This is China’.’
   The frown which had not left Holmes’s forehead deepened. I heard him repeat the words, ‘This is China...’
   He jabbed the stem of his pipe towards me.
   ‘Is that all he said? Have you left anything out in the retelling?’
   ‘That’s all, Holmes,’ I replied, ‘except a joke he made.’
   ‘The General joked?’
   ‘After saying ‘This is China’, Yuán added, ‘If this is a plot there may be method in their madness’.’
   ‘‘Method’ and ‘madness’. Did the General himself use those words or are they yours?’ Holmes asked.
   There was a sharp tone to his voice.
   ‘Those were his exact words.’
   ‘If this is a plot there may be method in their madness’, Holmes repeated, followed at once by ‘How deucedly, deucedly cunning’ and a further question: ‘Watson, when you were introduced to the General in London - together with Grey and Haldane - jog my memory, what did he plan to do afterleaving the meeting?’
   ‘Busy himself around London for the afternoon, order telegraph equipment from Marconi. Poach a few professors from our universities. Buy an Englishman’s outfit from Lock’s - which we now know he must have done.’
   ‘After that?’
   ‘A trip to Brighton.’
   ‘To do what, do you recall?’ my comrade pursued.
   ‘Pay a visit to the Royal Pavilion.’
   ‘And?’
   ‘Go to see a Shakespeare play on the Palace Pier.’
   ‘Did he say which play?’
   With my stomach rumbling for lack of food I responded with growing impatience.
   ‘Look, Holmes, no, he didn’t say. I doubt if he even cared. I doubt if he’d seen a Shakespeare play of any sort before. But for heaven’s sake why should it matter which play he...?’
   Holmes broke in sharply,‘The particular play may be worthless information or of extreme consequence. If the former, we can discard it. Before we meet for dinner, please get a message to Mycroft asking him to find out which Shakespeare performance was on offer on the Brighton Pavilion Pier that day.’
   I stood up, impatient but long resigned to my companion’s persnickety methods.
   Holmes called after me,‘And Watson, the watchword is secrecy. Don’t use the Imperial Chinese Telegraphs. Telegraph the message via a British cruiser at Hongkong. The Imperial Chinese Telegraphs are the perquisite of a certain viceroy, General Yuán Shì-kai. Every communication between you and the British Legation inPeking for transmission to London is brought to him immediately. Make use of the Mexican Army wheel coder. You’ll find it in my rooms.’* * *
   In the morning the eunuch assigned to sleep outside our doors at night brought me a note. It was from Holmes:‘If you could come to my quarters soonest I would appreciate it greatly.’
   I knocked once and entered his room to find him pacing about in a fever of suppressed energy, biting his nails, tapping the furniture. He thrust a copy of the English-language North China Daily Newsinto my hand. Despite the regional title, the banner headline showed it was published in Shanghai, a major East China Treaty Port.
   The headline blared-
   Disturbing News from the Northern Capital. Dastardly Assassination Attempt. on H.M. Kuang-hsü’s life.
   The dramatic words were followed by a remarkably close, albeit highly coloured description of the crow-attack on the Emperor, though the injury to the eardrum was not mentioned.
   The Daily News has received information of an attempt on our beloved Emperor’s life. It happened while His Majesty was aboard the Royal steam-launch on his way to the Wanshou Temple to pay homage to the Ancestors, (thus ensuring our country’s well-being),having prepared for the ceremony by a rigorous fast of three days. An explosive device propelled through the air detonated within inches of His Majesty’s head. Fortunately the best foreign doctors were on hand to save His Majesty’s life. No-one has been arrested. The would-be assassins fled like rabbits and hid like a tortoises. They are slaves, pirates, robbers, dogs, and sheep. We wonder how will they face the King of the Underworld after they have died?
   The piece ended ominously:
   Given the brazen nature of this failed assassination it is likely a further attempt will be made when the hue-and-cry has died down. All those who love and respect the Emperor must pray for his continued safety. Congratulations and memorials on His Majesty’s survival may be sent to His Majesty’s villa at Yingtai.
   The address of the Sea Palace followed. Incongruously, the text was accompanied by an archive photograph of the Emperor smiling broadly.
   ‘Holmes,’ I exclaimed, ‘newspapers are under the strictest orders never to report any such attack, whether on the Empress Dowager or the Son of Heaven?’
   ‘It’s certainly mystifying,’ Holmes agreed. ‘No autocrat wants it known an assassination attempt has been made,pouréviter un effet indésirable.’
   ‘More to the point,’ I continued, ‘how did the news get to a newspaper in the first place - and in such detail - especially one which circulates mostly among the Modernists? Who in the Forbidden City would dare to contact the Editor of a Treaty Port newspaper? TheDaily News offices are in Shanghai, Hankou, Tianjin and Harbin. Does this back up Yuán’s proposition that behind the plot lies the Emperor and his clique, the ti-tang?’* * *
   The sun was high in the sky when I returned to Holmes’s quarters. He pointed at the telegram in my hand.
   ‘You have news then?’
   ‘I have, Holmes,’ I replied. Pleased with myself, I added, ‘I have already decoded it using your machine. The Shakespeare play performed on the day of the General’s visit to Brighton was...’
   Before I could reveal the title Holmes interrupted me with,‘My friend, I believe you know something of waging bets?’
   Over the years, to Holmes’s mild contempt, a penchant for betting on ‘the ponies’ had eaten up much of my Army discharge pension of 11 shillings and 6 pence a month.
   ‘If you mean we should have a bet on whether you can guess the name of the play Yuán saw on Brighton Pier,’ I answered, ‘I can offer you top hole odds. It’s a racing certainty you’ll lose. Shall we bet the sum you extracted from me in your masquerade as a fortune-teller - 50 cash?’
   The grin on Holmes’s face should have made me wary.
   ‘And your odds?’ he asked.
   ‘How many plays did Shakespeare write?’ I asked.
   ‘Thirty-seven, I’m told,’ came the reply.
   I plunged in.
   ‘As it’s like taking pocket-money from a child, Holmes, how about if I offer you 37 to 1.’
   ‘Done!’
   ‘And the title of the play?’
   ‘‘The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark’,’ came Holmes’s response.
   Twin feelings of dismay and admiration surged through me. Pushing the telegram at him, I exclaimed,‘You’re right! How did...’
   ‘As so often, Watson,’ Holmes responded, ‘it was you who gave me the clue. You reported verbatim the conversation you had with the General while the Old Buddha calculated the damage done to the Emperor’s ear. You remember his words, ‘If this is a plot there may be method in their madness’?’
   ‘I do, yes. What of it?’
   ‘Have you heard almost the same words anywhere before?’
   ‘There’s a familiarity about them but it slips my mind where I...’
   ‘Lord Polonius inHamlet, Watson.‘Though this be madness, yet there is method in’t’. Your General could only have picked up that phrase from attending a performance of Hamlet - nowhere else. And that had to be abroad. Under the Ch’ing any play involving regicide is forbidden under pain of an unpleasant death. The artful Yuán used the words to point the finger at the Emperor, yet in doing so he over-reached. He fingered himself instead.’
   A hand stretched out towards me.
   ‘Now you must cross my palm with silver, Watson. Let’s see, 37 times 50 is 2,100 cash.’
   I reached for my wallet.
   ‘1,850 cash, Holmes,’ I said. ‘Good try.’
   Chapter XII
   I Have Some Niggling Questions
   An hour later Holmes and I lit up a couple of Trichinopoly cigars in the Temple’s pleasant gardens. A question was nagging at my mind.
   I asked,‘Holmes, can you explain why Li Lien-ying summoned me to examine the eunuch whose eardrum he’d just broken? Such an unremarkable event would otherwise never have come to my attention. If a crime is being committed, as you suppose, never before have the perpetrators notified us ahead of time that one is in train. If the Chief Eunuch hadn’t sent for me you would not now be looking with such suspicion on the damage to the Emperor’s ear.’
   ‘They needed to do so for one quite simple reason, Watson, to work out precisely the pressure required to shatter an eardrum without causing the victim’s immediate death. They called you in because they knew you had an otoscope with you. You confirmed Li’s cuff had shattered the tympanic membrane.’
   Not for the first time my comrade’s explanation left me more bewildered than ever. Why would a band of regicides be so keennotto kill their Royal prey?* * *
   After a walk I returned to my quarters as evening fell and settled on a comfortable couch. The tense atmosphere prevalent in the Forbidden City was affecting me. I was keen to escape into the small collection of stories which accompanied me on my travels. I opened Clark Russell’sThe Mystery of the Ocean Star with its breath of distant seas and the echo of surf murmuring on sandy beaches, an adventure my deceased wife Mary and I used to read together. In an instant the author would transport us to the sweltering climate of the Caribbean. I was able by now to murmur the opening paragraphs by heart.
   ‘There was a long swell from the westward, which came along in slopes of liquid violet, so polished that the glory of the sunshine slipped from one deeply-dark blue brow to another, as though indeed it were a substantial gushing of fiery gold sliding over the heads of rolling hills of glass...thewhole length of the steamer The Guide had barely steamed out clear from one of the largest of the low clouds when the chief officer sighted a low sail four points on the port bow.’
   ‘...four points on the port bow,’ I murmured. ‘...four points on the port bow...’
   My eyes were closing.‘...on the port bow’slipped from my lips for a further time. I fell asleep.
   Suddenly I was in darkest Africa, machete in hand, hacking at vegetation in a jungle so dense I could barely make out the ground four feet in front of me. Beneath my feet maidenhair ferns grew out of the drenched black leaf-mould. At every step heavy drops of water fell from grey beards of lichen above my head. Exhaustion and panic were setting in. I knew I was hours from potable water and a degree of safety. A cow-herd of elephants with calves was dangerously near. I heard a terrifying trumpeting. They had picked up my scent. The ground shook like a cavalry charge at Waterloo. The machete disappeared, to be replaced by a Gew 98 bolt action Mauser. I fired blindly, shot after shot, the internal magazine somehow reloading itself, yet still the cow-herd came surging forward. The sturdy trees I hoped would provide protection transformed themselves into soaring bamboo ten yards high, bending like a crashing wave as the screaming pachyderms swept down on me. I threw myself to the earth, waiting for my doom.
   Instead of rampaging elephants a most hideous creature burst out of the bamboo, bloated in appearance, purplish in colour. It ran at me simian-like on two legs and the knuckles of one hand. It was Stamford, the dresser from Barts Hospital many years ago. Blood seeped from mouth and nose. Only his left eye was sighted, the other socket empty, its eyeball dangling five inches below, still attached to the optic nerve. He hurled himself at me mouthing words in a strange language. In terror I turned the rifle on him, firing from the hip.
   The rat-tat of the Mauser turned into a sharp knocking. A familiar voice said,‘I hope I’m not inconveniencing you, Watson, but I have a question.’
   Holmes was standing at the door dressed in his favourite purple dressing-gown, hands in pockets, smoking his pipe. I blinked over at my comrade.‘What is it?’ I replied, grateful to be awoken from the nightmare.
   ‘We know General Yuán was given a tour of the Royal Pavilion. He then attended Hamlet on the Pavilion Pier - what else did he do after that?’
   I struggled to a sitting position to think.
   ‘I imagine the chauffeur drove him to Sherborne School to visit his sons,’ I replied.
   With growing exasperation, I went on,‘But I assume you didn’t wake me...’, I peered at my pocket-watch, ‘...at two in the morning just to ask what Yuán...’
   ‘Didn’t I, Watson?’ came the amused reply. ‘Then you must still be wrestling with whatever apparition was alarming you in your sleep.’
   His hand came forward holding a piece of paper with an encoded message.
   ‘Can you forsake bed and tales of the high seas and get an urgent request to Mycroft to supply us in detail what Yuán did after leaving the Pier and arriving at his sons’ school in Dorset? A vital clue could await us in that gap.’
   Holmes halted at the door.
   ‘One last thing. You have observed the Great Ancestress in the open more than I. How often does she wear a beizi?’
   ‘I’ve seen her outdoors on three occasions. Each time she was wearing a yellow beizi.’
   Holmes’s interrogation was not over.
   ‘Were the capes unadorned like the one the Emperor was wearing?’
   ‘No, not at all. Each was heavily embellished - coloured precious stones and pearls for peonies. Leaves of green jade. I can show you a photograph taken with my Lizars. In particular her official Imperial Yellow Gown is embroidered everywhere with gold dragons.’
   ‘Really, Watson, you excel yourself! I confess, my dear fellow, that I am very much in your debt.’
   ‘Why are you so concerned about such an inconsequential matter as Court fashion?’
   ‘You know my methods, Watson! We’ve remarked before on the lack of adornment on the beizi she sent to the Emperor. Just that single embroidered patch. You’ve just confirmed she never wears a plain yellow overdress. If the beizi she sent the Emperor had been made for her own use, why wasn’t the larger part of the yellow plastered over with jewels and pearls and covered with embroidery and ribbon? Why just the single roundel on the back?’
   Yet again my comrade’s ability for observation was proving as opaque as his reasoning. He continued, ‘She knew there were oilskins aboard if the air proved especially damp. So I ask myself, why did she press him to wear the beizi on the water?’
   ‘I must seem thick-headed to you, Holmes,’ I responded. ‘Evidently the body of facts we’ve accrued has conveyed a good deal more to you than it has to me yet I can’t say you’re getting anywhere.’
   Holmes’s nostrils dilated with an animal lust for the chase.
   ‘Quite the opposite, Watson, I believe I can now say who sanctioned the attack. The question remains, can we prove it?’
   ‘Either I shall be proved right,’ he went on, ‘or to quote Hamlet - ‘It is a damned ghost that we have seen, And my imaginations are as foul, As Vulcan’s stithy’.’
   I waved the piece of paper with the coded message. I made one last effort.
   ‘This information you seek about the General...I can see no earthly reason why he would have anything to do with an explosion perforating the Emperor’s ear.’
   By now Holmes’s back was turned. As he left the room I called out, ‘I would trust Yuán as I trust myself.’
   The door re-opened.
   ‘Would you indeed, Watson? I’ve said it before, there are some trees which grow to a certain height and suddenly develop an eccentricity. You see it in humans. What do you know of Yuán’s ancestry? Take our old enemy Colonel Moran. Eton College. The University of Oxford. A distinguished military career, an honourable soldier. No hint of the arch-criminal-to-be we confronted. Such a sudden turn to evil must stand for some strong influence which comes into the line of a man’s pedigree. Effectively each of us becomes the epitome of the history of our own family.’
   This time the door almost closed before Holmes’s face reappeared for the second time.
   ‘There is one more point I’d like you to ponder.’
   ‘Which is?’
   ‘The patch of embroidery on the beizi was stitched with the elytra of jewel-beetles. It so happens I studied that beetle family before I studiedApis mellifera, the European honey bee. After months of investigation I discovered something unusual about the wing-cases. I wrote a monogram on the subject. The microscopic texture in the cuticle selectively reflects specific frequencies of light.’
   The inflection in his voice put a special emphasis on his next words,‘Especially in the ultra-violet spectrum’.
   ‘Reflects specific frequencies of light, do they, Holmes!’ I scoffed, reaching for my outdoor clothes. ‘I can’t imagine how I’ve managed to live a long life without knowing that.’
   ‘Especially in the ultra-violet spectrum,’ he repeated.
   I stared at the page of letters and numbers. As I stepped out of the Temple I muttered aloud,‘Specific frequencies of light, especially in the ultra-violet spectrum’. What on earth had ultra-violet got to do with the price of tea in China?* * *
   Holmes looked up expectantly as I entered.
   ‘Do we have a reply about the General’s movements after Brighton?’ he asked.
   I replied, trying not to sound triumphal,‘We do, but just as I thought, you’ll gain nothing by it. He simply went to his sons’ school. It’s near Sherborne Castle.’
   The eyes took on a steely look.
   ‘The journey itself, Watson?’
   ‘I’m surprised that something so mundane seems so palpably to have gripped your imagination,’ I ventured defensively.
   ‘But nevertheless you have an answer?’
   I shook my head, embarrassed.
   ‘Only that it’s about 160 miles from Brighton to Sherborne, but why you should...’
   Holmes broke in angrily,‘I asked for every detail. As yet you’ve failed to supply them. Get back at once to Mycroft. Find out who chauffeured Yuán. I want every detail of the route they took. Did they stop anywhere on the way? If so, where, for how long, and what took place?’
   ‘Really, Holmes,’ I responded. ‘You’re making a mountain out of a mole-hill.’ Sarcastically I asked, ‘Shall I find out whether it rained?’
   ‘Every detail, Watson! No matter how mundane.’
   The amended reply with more detail was brought to my quarters the same evening. I decoded it and set off to inform Holmes. He was sitting in the subdued light of a lamp, eyes closed.
   ‘Ah hah!’ my comrade exclaimed, beckoning me in. The pipe pointed towards me like a single-shot Flobert pistol. ‘You have an answer already! Excellent. He left the Pavilion Pier...what then?’
   ‘Nothing of any special interest. I’m afraid you’ll find it disappointing,’ I replied. I was perversely pleased to be proved right. ‘At one point they diverted a few miles to Buckler’s Hard in the New Forest. Yuán wanted to see where England built the ships which destroyed Napoleon Bonaparte.’
   I had myself visited this now-sleepy little village on the western bank of the Beaulieu River. Its sheltered waterfront situation and abundance of oak, beech and elm trees from the surrounding forest offered the perfect location to build large timber vessels. In 1805 three ships built from the New Forest’s vast tree trunks saw action at the Battle of Trafalgar - theEuryalus, theSwiftsure and Admiral Nelson’s favourite ship, theAgamemnon.
   My comrade frowned.
   ‘Did they do anything, go anywhere else, except visit the old shipyards?’
   I shook my head.
   ‘And no, it didn’t rain,’ I joked.
   What an extraordinary genius my comrade had for minutiae, I reflected. It was not meant entirely as a compliment. Many were the occasions Holmes obliged me to recount in infinitesimal detail things that had not the faintest significance for any normal human-being.
   ‘I tell you Holmes,’ I began, ‘I can see it’s time we packed up and left for England. Really, you must abandon this absurd conspiracy theory. The whole thing - the crow blowing up on his shoulder - was an accident, a quirk. A jape at most. If there was malign intent, one thing is clear. Theperpetrators could not have killed the Emperor or anyone else with that firework.’
   Holmes pointed at an easy chair.
   ‘Sit down and make yourself comfortable, Watson’ he said in an emollient tone. ‘Let me present the facts as we know them, one by one. We agree someone released a crow with a firework strapped to its leg. As you note but cannot explain, instead of flying straight up into the sky the bird choseto fly across open water and settle on the Emperor’s shoulder. As though calculated to the second, the Exploding Bamboo did its stuff, namely it detonated, shattering the royal eardrum. We know the firecracker was charged with black powder, not gelignite. The explosive had just the right amount of power to shatter the Emperor’s eardrum but not his skull. We also know the Emperor was wearing a mantle sent as a gift that morning by the Empress Dowager with an apologetic note. It took the place of a feng ling.
   We are in agreement on those facts. It’s at this point you and I branch away from each other. Take that beizi. You say the loan or gift of the cape was nothing more than a kindly gesture. I say together with ‘The Orchid Lady’s’ unexpected last-minute change of plan it was an essential component of a murderous plot.’
   Sensing an opportunity to recover my money I issued the challenge for a further wager.
   ‘Are you up for another bet, Holmes? Plot you win. Prank you lose?’
   ‘Accepted,’ came the prompt reply. ‘To repeat, the facts are not in dispute between us. It is only the conclusions which differ. I deduce a consequence: a plot against the Son of Heaven isin train but not yet consummated. If I’m proved wrong I’ll give way and return your 1850 cash.’
   ‘So where do we go from here?’ I asked.
   ‘We must trigger more facts. No harm can come from getting the Emperor to take part in a little charade. Both you and he must indulge me a little. What’s your latest diagnosis of the Emperor’s eardrum?’
   ‘He should be well enough to go outside in a matter of days.’
   ‘Say by Friday?’
   ‘I would think by Friday, yes,’ I replied.
   Holmes uncapped his fountain-pen and bent over a sheet of sermon paper. He began to sketch lightly like an artist painting silhouettes on ivory.
   ‘Who’s this for?’ I asked, looking over his shoulder at the page of logograms. ‘And what does it say?’
   ‘This message is to be delivered to your royal patient. As from the Hour of the Monkey this Friday, you recommend a return to his habit of resting in the orchard, but he must be sure to retain the bandaging exactly as it is.’
   I was to send the chit to the Emperor via the eunuch ever at the ready outside our front door.
   ‘And the Hour of the Monkey is?’ I asked.
   ‘Between three and five in the afternoon. It’s when monkeys become very lively.’
   ‘But Holmes,’ I demurred, pointing at the door, ‘you know perfectly well the lad reports our every move direct to the Old Buddha herself. Within minutes she will be...’
   ‘...apprised of the note’s contents? Just so. Meantime I want you to get the Emperor’s faithful eunuch Kou to hot-foot it here as soon as darkness falls.’
   Kou was to make it clear his master must lie in the orchard with the good ear upwards, the bandage covering it still.
   ‘No matter who approaches, the Son of Heaven is to lie as insensible as a French wax-work. Under no circumstances should your patient risk falling asleep without pressing a cotton wad into the damaged ear and putting that ear to the pillow. That way we shall leave nothing to chance.’
   ‘Ostensibly, Watson,’ Holmes continued, ‘you are summoning Kou here to pick up some wads of sterile cotton for his master’s ear. In reality you are about to instruct him in the gentle art of Aeroscope photography. Tomorrow please inform the Empress Dowager in person that the Emperor is recovering his strength and inching towards a full recovery. Emphasise the eardrum has still some way to go before it seals but improves by the day, and that you have advised a return to his customary outdoor rest starting this Friday.’
   ‘You insist a plot’s in train, Holmes,’ I replied. ‘Can you at least give me a clue - what rôle can an orchard play in an assassin’s thinking?’
   With an infuriating‘All in good time, Watson,’ my comrade turned away.
   A Palace messenger handed me a package at the door of my quarters. It contained the copy ofThe Hound of the Baskervilles, returned in the clamshell box. The Emperor must have read it deep into the night. There were signs his already-poor sleep had become even more disturbed. Drops of wax from red candles had seeped into the pages.* * *
   Friday night arrived. Holmes and I sat waiting. A tap came on the door. An excited Kou Liancai slipped into the room with the Aeroscope carefully disguised as an ordinary box. The trusty servant had quickly grasped how to use the camera’s simple mechanism and clambered up the pipa tree, sufficiently hidden but with a direct view of his master at rest. Kou handed the camera to me together with the short wad of cotton from the Emperor’s good ear. The wad was saturated with a liquid. I placed it in a sterile glass tube for Holmes to examine.
   The photographer-in-residence at the Peking Western Gentleman’s Club offered me his dark room, equipped with a small tank, Tabloid chemicals and running water. The sequences sprang to life - theShishaquitaafloat, British graves in the Russian cemetery, the pagoda designed by the Emperor Yung-lo. A panoramic view of the Summer Palace. And finally the orchard scene.
   Whatever I had expected to see - if I had expected anything unusual at all - could not in my wildest imagination have lived up to the scene that met my eyes. I could barely restrain a shout of surprise and horror. My hands shook as over the next several hours I transferred the film frame by frame on to tough, flexible opaque cards for the Mutoscope.* * *
   Holmes was pacing up and down in his quarters when I returned in the early hours. I fitted the flicker-book into the Mutoscope and silently invited him to look. He turned the wheel to set the machine in motion. He watched the flickering images to the end and announced with an expression of grim satisfaction,‘Well done, Watson. We’ve caught them with their trousers down. However, we need to pin down precisely which of them is the mastermind behind it.’
   He pointed at the Mutoscope.
   ‘On this evidence alone, would a jury find the Empress Dowager or the General or Li - or all three - guilty of attempted murder as you and I charge them?’
   ‘Doesn’t the evidence speak for itself?’ I replied. ‘We have the film of those three creeping up to a sleeping man and one of them - Li - pouring a liquid into the Emperor’s ear. We expect that liquid to be...’
   ‘...a deadly poison, yes, but how will you prove the alleged culprits knew that?’
   ‘You know perfectly well, Holmes - we can take the cotton wad and test it.’
   ‘...and offer that as conclusive evidence?’ came the quick reply. ‘Unfortunately, Watson, it requires a definitive connection between the circumstance and the fact. For example, with fingerprint evidence, a jury must be able to make a connection between evidence that the accused handled some object linked to the crimeand the commission of the crime itself. Or in our case, how do we prove the cotton wad is the wad from the Emperor’s ear? We cannot. The eunuch can only say he brought us a cotton wad the Emperor handed to him. When we received it, it was soaked with liquid, yes, but was it a toxin or merely sweat? We shall need an admission before we can link the crime to the criminal. My money is on the General. He is an ingenious and resourceful man - yet not sufficiently far-sighted since he has taken risks that could have been avoided.’
   ‘What about Kou?’ I asked. ‘Couldn’t he be of value before our mythical jury?’
   ‘And condemn him to a swift and terrible death? How many hours would you give the trusty servant to live if he admitted he hid with the camera in the pipa tree? Not for a moment must we underestimate the General. He will make every effort to exculpate himself. ‘Il fautêtre le plus malin.’ We must be the cleverest. We will need to counter Yuán on every point. Not just whether it was a poison but the origin of the toxin and particularly how it was obtained.’
   As Holmes moved away from the Mutoscope he said,‘I’ll collect my cash winnings in the morning, if you don’t mind. First we shall need Wang’s help, though I fear he has already become compromised enough for his own good.’
   The voice lowered.
   ‘One more thing, my old friend. You and the General have developed a professional, even personal camaraderie. Quite shortly we are going to make a bitter enemy of him. If we are to preserve the Emperor’s life we must preserve our own. You as well as I may find our lives in danger. Avoid all solitary and unfrequented places, every by-alley. When we confront him - as soon we must - have your pistol on you. Don’t be afraid to use it.’* * *
   Again and again throughout the night the dramatic scene in the orchard ran through my mind. I awoke early and eschewing breakfast went straight to Holmes’s quarters. He was bent over an improvised chemical bench rigged from a recessed-leg table. The top was covered by beakers, reagent bottles, filter flasks and absorption tubes, presumably supplied by Wang who nodded a welcome at me from a seat nearby. Two Bunsen-burners were on the go, using a source of almost pure methane, one flame blue, the other yellow. Near at hand lay a small bunch of leaves, stalks and roots of plants and some fungi.
   Holmes greeted me without looking up. His free hand gestured towards at a ceramic mortar and wood-and-porcelain pestle. Lying in the bowl was a shrivelled three-legged toad.
   ‘There’s a desiccated creature in the mortar, Watson. Can you grind it up as fine as possible?’
   ‘What’s this, Holmes?’ I exclaimed. ‘Surely you aren’t copying the Wayward Sisters in Shakespeare’sMacbeth?‘Round about the cauldron go; In the poison’d entrails throw. Toad, that under cold stone, Days and nights has thirty-one, Swelter’d venom sleeping got...’?’
   ‘We’re making a traditional preparation of the infamous bane gu,’ came the reply. ‘Gu or Jincan is a venom-based poison associated with cultures of south China, particularly Nanyue.’
   The word Gu, he explained, was the ancient Chinese symbol for extreme pathological yin - the dark side of life, the worst nightmare of any human being. It represented darkness, rottenness, slithering vermin, poisonous snakes, betrayal, black magic, backstabbing murder and in medical terms, progressive organ decay accompanied by torturous pain and insanity.
   My comrade looked up.
   ‘In other words, life in the Forbidden City. Wang here says gu is believed capable of inflicting death from a distance, and with excruciating slowness. The victim of these uncanny machinations appears to die from a chronic disease, soit’s a popular way to kill without exposing the attacker.’
   ‘But why this toad?’ I asked, picking up the grizzly specimen by one of the three legs. ‘Is it especially poisonous?’
   ‘It should be,’ came the amused reply. ‘Wang paid good money for it. It’s the survivor of a very nasty battle. Venomous snakes, scorpions, centipedes, spiders and that toad were imprisoned together inside a closed container. In the ensuing struggle each devours another or is devoured until the venom from all is concentrated into a single survivor. That animal is deemed the most venomous. The creature is killed, dried, and this one is now ready for you to grind into a powder for comparing with the assassins’ poison.’
   Chapter XIII
   A Matter of Which Poison
   I returned to Holmes’s make-shift laboratory after my morning stint at the surgery to find him examining a toadstool. He had tested the pulverised toad and found it lacking in any toxin. Wang had now secretly purchased examples of China’s most toxic plants, including our old friendAmanita phalloides, the Deathcap. The fatality rate for Amanitin poisoning was about 50%. A single ounce or half a cap was enough to kill. No matter on which Continent it’s found, the infamous Deathcap is the most poisonous fungus known to Man. The all-white version in Holmes’s hand was known as the ‘East Asian Destroying Angel’.
   Holmes held it up.
   ‘As you well know, Watson, the mycotoxins in this have been involved in the majority of human deaths from mushroom poisoning, possibly including the deaths of Roman Emperor Claudius and the Holy Roman Emperor Charles VI.’
   Holmes took a vial from the bench.
   ‘This vial contains a sample of my own blood.’
   He cut away a portion of the cotton swab retrieved from the Emperor’s ear, dropping a small piece into the test-tube and shook it gently, holding it up to the light. The three of us watched intently. If the poison was from the deadly fungus, the fresh blood would almost at once turn into a clear, transparent liquid.
   ‘Watson, you will have done this a hundred times in India, no doubt,’ Holmes murmured.
   I nodded assent. As a medical officer in India alongside Surgeon-Major Alexander Francis Preston I grew skilled at performing post-mortems when poisoning was suspected.
   Five seconds went by. Again Holmes shook the vial. Ten seconds. Twenty seconds. The blood stayed bright red.
   ‘Nothing!’ I exclaimed.
   Holmes put the vial down. He muttered with an air almost of satisfaction,‘They are as diabolically clever as I thought. I didn’t expect them to use the Deathcap. The toxin is so powerful the Emperor could be found dead even before the assassins had time to return to their lairs. If they’re as cunning as I believe them to be, they would want a poison to take several days to do its deadly work. Otherwise why merely shatter an eardrum in the first place? Their plan would work best if the Emperor’s manifestations were indistinguishable from symptoms of natural illness.’
   We still lacked the one detail we required to prove our case. Where could the poison have come from? To see Holmes baffled was a novelty. His knowledge of pharmacology was immense. When the Royal Society of Chemists welcomed him into their ranks he entertained the audience by remarking wryly,‘We English are especially famed for our love of churchyards and country gardens, habitats rich in snowdrops, monkshood and foxgloves, plants whose neurotoxins and cell toxins are so utterly deadly they are known in the criminal world as the impecunious assassin’s heart-stoppers. I have on occasion made a very good living from their improper use, though not by me, of course. You may enjoy reading my friend Dr. Watson’s chronicle on the Camberwell Poisoning Case.’
   Holmes pointed at a book lying open on a chair.‘I’ve been going throughInstructions to Coroners written by Song Ci. Our friend Wang here has translated it for us. Song Ci has a way with words. You would learn something for crafting your chronicles from the first sentence alone. Will you, please, Watson?’
   I read out,‘For those who die of poisoning, their orifices open, their face turns greenish black or green, their lips go purplish green, their nails appear dark green, and blood spews out of their mouth, eyes, ears, and nose.’
   Frowning, I asked Wang,‘When wasInstructions To Coroners published - recently?’
   ‘Not so recent, Dr. Watson,’ he replied. ‘About seven centuries ago.’
   ‘Have a look at the section on the ‘three-laugh death powder’,’ Holmes said. ‘It’s rumoured to be undetectable. There’s just the one symptom - the victim dies after giving an eerie, sardonic grin three times. My other favourite is titled ‘Meets blood and seals throat’. The toxin from the antiaris toxicaria tree is found mostly in the provinces of Yunnan and Hainan. Once you’re infected with the poison you can only take seven steps forward or eight steps back before death.’
   Holmes placed a vial on the Bunsen burner.
   ‘We’ll be in difficulty if we can’t discover which toxin they used. We won’t be able to pin the assassination attempt on a specific person.’
   He reached out to a small handful of fragrant, fleshy, pale-pink, tubular flowers.
   ‘Winter Daphne. I’ve already tested it. None of these other native plants matches the toxin on the cotton plug either.’
   With something approaching despair in his voice, he said,‘Have we at last been defeated, Watson? If so, it will be very hard to bear.’* * *
   It was late evening. I was again deep intoThe Mystery of the Ocean Star. Out there, alone in the ocean, lay a mysterious ship, apparently abandoned.
   ‘She was rolling to the run of the swell, and the swinging of the canvas flung a hurry of shadowing over her... what was to be made of the mystery of a vessel that exhibited the most certain signs imaginable of human life being aboard, and that was yet as tenantless as a newly dug grave? There was the galley fire burning, there had been the saucepan bubbling and the fowl boiling, and the slush-lamp in the forecastle flaming.’
   Holmes burst into my rooms. There was a palpable air of excitement about him, a striking contrast with his subdued expression a few hours earlier.
   ‘Watson,’ he cried, ‘Do you still have the reply from Mycroft - in which the General’s chauffeur detailed the journey between Brighton and the sons’ school - Buckler’s Hard and so on?’
   I struggled up.
   ‘Look Holmes,’ I groused, ‘I read it out to you yesterday, word for word.’
   ‘Answer my question, please, Watson,’ came the reply.
   Reluctantly I pointed to the hat-rack.
   ‘You’ll find the telegram in the inside pocket of my coat.’
   He retrieved the piece of paper and brought it close to the lantern. His body went rigid.
   ‘Watson,’ he cried. ‘We have him! I believe we have him!’
   He held up the piece of paper accusingly.
   ‘You failed to read out the most important information of all!’
   I cudgelled my brains to find some possible fact he was referring to.
   I protested,‘I’m sure I gave you anything which could in any way be relevant to your case.’
   In a veritable frenzy of excitement my comrade shook the piece of paper at me.
   ‘Yuán’s stroll in the New Forest! You didn’t mention Yuán’s stroll in the New Forest! It says, ‘At Buckler’s Hard he went for a quick stroll in the nearby woods’. Really, Watson, if we are to continue working together you must...’
   Angrily I interrupted,‘For Heaven’s sake, Holmes, of course I didn’t bother to read that out. ‘He went for a quick stroll in the nearby woods’ - so what? I thought it could embarrass the General. The New Forest is quite some way from Brighton. There were no lavatories around. I doubt if they carried a jordan in the vehicle. He’s not a young man. I assumed by then he needed to relieve himself.’
   ‘Well, well, no matter,’ my comrade exulted, ‘things are turning a little in our direction at last. We are almost ready to invite the General to the première of your Aeroscope Productions.’
   I scrutinized the dancing figure before me.
   ‘Holmes, someone deciding to take a stroll in the woods before continuing a lengthy drive to Sherborne hardly merits this bee-dance you’re performing - let alone all this telegraphic traffic between China and England?’
   ‘Not ‘someone’, Watson. General Yuán. General Yuán took the stroll into the forest. And yes, ‘all this telegraphic traffic’ was worth it - precisely because of his stroll. Now we can spring the trap!’
   And with that, with not a word of explanation, he was gone.
   I picked upThe Ocean Starfrom the floor but the time to read was past. My thoughts kept straying to the tissue of mysteries and improbabilities the whole of Holmes’s ‘plot’ had become.* * *
   I was not looking forward to a confrontation. I would do as Holmes counselled and come with the top-breaker pistol after slipping in the safety catch. The .476 calibre bullet could stop a charging boar in its tracks. I retained considerable feelings of warmth towards the General despite the ruthless way he dominated his officers and men. I liked his engaging candour. I felt the camaraderie military men develop for each other. He had treated my report with professional respect. Yet there was the incontrovertible evidence of the Aeroscope, albeit countered by the fact we had as yet failed to identify the liquid soaking through the cotton earplug.
   To steady my nerves I opened my wardrobe. I could choose the Morning dress, my last purchase before embarking on my long journey, or if the confrontation was delayed into the evening, the more formal frock-coat. I settled on the single-breasted cheviot Morning coat. My tailor had urged an elegant shade of iron-grey to go with the striped spongebag trousers, the waistcoat slightly lighter in colour. And a grey silk Ascot and tie tack.* * *
   General Yuán arrived at the suggested time. He came alone. Holmes invited him to take a seat on a tall stool at the Mutoscope. Smiling broadly the General told us he was quite conversant with these machines. He had spent an hour on the Palace Pier at Brighton putting coppers into coin-in-the-slot peep-shows. Especially, he said, eyes twinkling, ‘What The Butler Saw’.
   To which Holmes replied,‘General, I think you will find this show almost as entertaining.’
   In jovial mood our guest bent over the device. At the turn of the handle, the flicker-cards began a rapid click. Appreciative noises accompanied the first sequences - the Camel’s-Back Bridge, the Marble Boat with the Empress Dowager waving from the upper deck, holding a then-living Shadza. The clicking of the wheel slowed. Holmes murmuredsotto voce,‘He’s arrived at the orchard scene with the Emperor asleep under the pipa tree.’
   As though presenting a Magic Lantern travelogue, Holmes commented aloud,‘Next, General, you see Chief Eunuch Li coming into view. Note the little jar in his hand. Is that someone coming into view behind him? So it is - it’s Her Imperial Majesty stepping cautiously through the pomegranate trees. And behind her? Why, no-one in the whole of China would have any trouble recognising him - it’s General Yuán.’
   Holmes’s voice changed to fake alarm.
   ‘Now Li is creeping up to the sleeping Emperor. What in Heaven’s name is Li doing? He’s lifting up the bandages. He looks back at Her Imperial Majesty. She beckons him to go ahead. He’s dripping the contents of the jar into the Son of Heaven’s ear. Now Li pats the bandage back in place. He rejoins the General and the Empress Dowager. You congratulate him, General. The Empress Dowager is giving one last backward look at the sleeping Emperor. All three of you make your stealthy exit.’
   My comrade ended on a poetic note:
   ‘Once more the Emperor is alone with his dreams and the birds.’
   The clicking of the cards stopped. The stool crashed backwards. Our guest straightened up. His eyes narrowed. He stared from Holmes to me and back as if at alarming apparitions. The atmosphere had turned ugly.
   ‘Gentlemen, what’s all this about?’
   Holmes responded,‘General, isn’t it remarkable how similar this sequence is to a scene in a certain William Shakespeare play?The Tragedy of Hamlet. Act 1, scene 5. As the King lay sleeping in an orchard, the murderer poured poison into his ear. Wouldn’t you agree the mastermind of this assassination plot must be conversant with the great Bard’s play?’
   Holmes added as though in an aside to me,‘But how could this be, Watson? No-one in China could be familiar with the plot in Hamlet. Plays showing the murder of a monarch, fictitious or not, are strictly forbidden in the Chinese Empire.’
   Yuán stepped away from the Mutoscope, his face twisted into a scowl.
   ‘Gentlemen,’ he continued, ‘very clever. Very clever indeed! Sir Sherlock, you have lived up to your reputation. I had thought... but that can wait.’
   The scowl disappeared to be replaced by a seductive grin.
   ‘I’m sure we can come to an arrangement!’
   I heard Holmes ask,‘First of all, General, is it too late to save the Kuang-hsü Emperor?’
   ‘I’m afraid so,’ came the reply. ‘Even as we speak his organs are being destroyed. Two or three days and he will be no more.’
   He placed a hand on top of the Mutoscope. A sly look had come into his eyes.
   ‘Sir Sherlock, you could have passed this to the Reformists in Shanghai. You haven’t done so. Perhaps you and Dr. Watson have something else in mind? If it’s wealth you want, I can make you the richest men in England. Richer than your King. Simply hand me this flicker-book and go home. Forgetall about it. Name your price and camel-loads of treasures from the Emperor’s Palace will be yours for the taking - blood-red rubies from Burmah, Indian sapphires, rings and bracelets of Imperial Jade, 3,000-year-old artefacts from Sanxingdui of gold, bronze, ivory...’
   ‘My dear General,’ Holmes interrupted, ‘we wouldn’t dream of allowing you to loot the Emperor’s treasures. The Emperor might well object.’
   ‘If so, he won’t object for long!’ came the almost triumphant reply. ‘Her Imperial Majesty is already ordering altars to be set up all across the Empire for people to pray for the Emperor’s health and full recovery but he’s as good as...’
   Holmes interrupted,‘...dead? So you say. But is he?’
   ‘How do you mean?’ Yuán replied, tapping the Mutoscope. ‘You saw Li pour the poison into his ear! Within minutes it would have seeped through the broken...’
   ‘General,’ I intervened, ‘cast your mind back. Did Li pour the contents of the jug into the right or the left ear?’
   The General replied impatiently,‘The damaged one, of course.’
   ‘Which was?’ I asked.
   The General laughed.
   ‘His left ear, of course!’
   He pointed at me.
   ‘You should know! The one covered by your bandages. We didn’t have to be a second Sir Sherlock to...’’
   ‘My comrade bandaged an ear, certainly,’ Holmes interrupted again, ‘but that’s where your plot unravels. It was perfectly reasonable to take it for granted the firecracker shattered the ear beneath the bandage. In fact it was a little trap of ours. The bandage was placed over the good ear, not the one damaged by the blast. There was no way the poison could trickle into your victim’s gullet and do its work.’
   The General was now confronting us like an animal at bay. The veins stood out like whipcord in his sinewy neck. His face glistened with sweaty moisture, as though freshly raised from a water-basin.
   ‘A trap?’ he snarled. ‘Nevertheless you can’t prove what the jar contained. I was just joking about poison. I can assure you it was a balm to help speed...’
   ‘Wrong again,’ Holmes broke in.
   My comrade reached into a pocket and brought out the glass tube containing the small wad of cotton. He spoke in the quietest and most matter-of-fact tone.
   ‘This was retrieved from the Emperor’s left ear, the one Li poured your ‘balm’ into. Enough of the liquid soaked into it for investigation. I have made an analysis of its chemistry. The tubers, stems, and leaves of the plant the plotters used contain one of the most deadly toxins ever created by Nature.’
   ‘Even so,’ snapped the General, stabbing a finger at the cotton wad, ‘unless you can connect that plant to anyone, you have no evidence to prove I had anything...’
   Holmes riposted,‘But my dear General, wecan trace it to someone...’
   ‘...and we have,’ I interposed.
   At my words our guest’s face flushed and darkened. I expected him to say ‘Et tu, Brute?’. I reached a hand nervously into my pocket and fiddled with the pistol’s safety-catch.
   Yuán blustered, ‘Confirm the regicide behind this fiendish plot, the one who switched the balm for the poison, and I assure you he’ll get the punishment he...’ at which he paused as though testing out his defence before continuing dramatically, ‘Was it Li himself, do you suppose? He has reason to fear the Emperor’s retribution when the Old Buddha dies. Did he switch the balm for a poison and ...’
   My comrade broke in.
   ‘General, let’s see if between us we can discover the brain behind this ingenious plot. First it’s reasonable to deduce it must be someone who took note of the unusual murder technique in a particular Shakespearean play. The culprit must have dreamed up the plot after hearing the bitter wordsof King Hamlet’s ghost.’
   ‘Which were, Sir Sherlock?’ came the evasive response.
   At which Holmes almost sang out the words:‘Sleeping within my orchard,My custom always of the afternoon,Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,With juice of cursed hebenon in a vial,And in the porches of my ears did pourThe leperous distilment; whose effectHolds such an enmity with blood of manThat swift as quicksilver it courses throughThe natural gates and alleys of the body,And with a sudden vigour doth possetAnd curd, like eager droppings into milk,The thin and wholesome blood: so did it mine.’
   For a few moments there was silence. I intervened with,‘We also deduce the principal assassin had access to two particular pieces of scientific knowledge.’
   The General asked,‘Why do you assume that?’
   I replied,‘The mastermind knew a fact unknown three centuries ago when Shakespeare wrote that play. Poison dripped into an ear can certainly drain down the auditory tube to the throat and into the stomach but with one crucial proviso - the eardrum must be freshly broken. Liquid cannot pass through an intact tympanic membrane.’
   ‘And the other piece of scientific knowledge?’ the General asked, breathing heavily.
   ‘Black powder,’ Holmes replied. ‘This Machiavellian mind possessed another distinction vital to the plot - a thorough knowledge of explosives. The sort of knowledge a man with a military background might possess. Act One called for a broken eardrum but not the death of the victim. The firecracker was loaded with black powder, deliberately. It accomplished its purpose admirably.’
   The General’s brow darkened. Beads of sweat began to drip from his forehead.
   ‘Continue with this fiction if you must, Gentlemen,’ he responded, slapping the side of the Mutoscope. ‘Out of interest - so I can pass this amusing tale on to my sons - Sir Sherlock, you say you can trace the poison to an individual? By which means?’
   ‘We tracked down the source,’ Holmes replied. ‘It was a remarkably clever plan. More than clever, General–it was brilliant. I tested for the most toxic plants indigenous to High Asia.’
   ‘And?’
   ‘Not one of them was the culprit.’
   ‘So there you have it!’ the General exclaimed, a look of relief crossing his face. Almost beseechingly he turned his gaze on me.
   ‘Dr. Watson, you see, it could only have been a foreigner who...’
   ‘I’m afraid not, General,’ Holmes’s retorted. ‘The poison came from a plant commonly known to natives of its region as Fool’s Parsley, described in detail in a well-known book on poisonous plants. The question is, General, where can Fool’s Parsley be found? You shake your head but youknow the answer.’
   Holmes continued smoothly,‘The botanical name for the infamous Fool’s Parsley is the Hemlock Water Dropwort. The bulbous roots look like harmless garden turnips or radishes yet one root will kill a cow. In all of Nature, only in two marine creatures is a poison of this potency to be found– the blue-ringed octopus and the puffer fish. It’s the most-likely candidate for the ‘sardonic herb’ used for the ritual killing of elderly people in Phoenician Sardinia.’
   ‘How would I know that?’ came the General’s retort.
   Holmes gestured in my direction.
   ‘Because Dr. Watson here telegraphed a well-known bookshop in Brighton. I’m sure you are acquainted with the name Blackwell’s? Where you went to purchase a copy of Wisden’s cricketing almanack for your sons, at my friend Watson’s suggestion? Blackwell’s remembers selling a copy of ‘Britain’s Most Poisonous Plants’ to an affable foreigner of Chinese extraction, a remarkably well-dressed man in a striped blazer and fine Panama hat. Their records showed the sale was on the very date you set off for your journey to Sherborne.’
   The General’s eyes opened wide in surprise. My breath exhaled slowly. Holmes had taken a huge gamble. I had had no contact whatsoever with the bookshop.
   Holmes reached into a pocket and withdrew a slim volume.
   ‘As it happens I have a copy myself, purchased at that very shop. I go nowhere without it. The plants are beautifully illustrated. Black Bryony. Dog’s Mercury. What is it about Fool’s Parsley that catches the eye, I wonder? Ah, here. ‘Poisoning with this plant results in abdominal pain, excitation, confusion, blurred vision, inflammation of the mouth and throat, duodenal congestion and skeletal paralysis’.’
   Holmes closed the book.
   ‘And death. Irreversible and inevitable.’
   ‘Even so,’ Yuán replied, with a low guttural sound of hostility, ‘there’s no way I could have got hold of this plant which you say...’
   His right hand had fallen to waist level.
   ‘I’m afraid that’s not true, General,’ Holmes interrupted. ‘Where is Fool’s Parsley plentiful? Watson, would you be kind enough to remind the General.’
   ‘The New Forest,’ I replied.
   ‘Just so,’ Holmes exclaimed heartily. ‘Where our friend here stretched his legs on his way to Sherborne.’
   Holmes turned back to the General.
   ‘Equipped with ‘Britain’s Most Poisonous Plants’ you would easily have found the Dropwort around Buckley’s Hard. It thrives in every ditch and damp meadow and on every riverbank.’
   As he spoke, I sensed something had changed about Holmes. I looked carefully. There was nothing unusual about his dress. It was not his clothing, but what?
   Suddenly it came to me - the pipe clutched in his right hand. I had never seen Holmes smoking a briar with an aluminium magnesium alloy stem, though without doubt the harsh tobaccos he enjoyed called for almost super-human cooling. The pipe was new, judging by the sheen. And he was holding it with the bowl facing downwards, the stem pointed unwaveringly at the man before us.
   The General’s face had convulsed into a wrathful scowl. He pulled out a large handkerchief and mopped his forehead. He blustered, ‘If someone wanted to poison His Majesty he wouldn’t have to go to the far reaches of the earth. Why not dose his food with arsenic or prussic acid? Or a local plant? We havemonkshood here. Four-hundredths of a grain of aconitine in a bowl of yoghurt would have done it.’
   ‘Except that within the hour the victim’s skin, lungs, kidneys, and liver would immediately point to murder,’ Holmes responded. ‘Too soon for the plotters to disperse into their customary world. No, General. I congratulate you on your impressive knowledge of pharmacology but aconitine is best employed to achieve an instant death, as in a man likely to struggle and raise the alarm. This murder required a plant of similar extreme toxicity - after all, death was the goal -but whose deadly effects would take time, and above all be quite unknown in China. Fool’s Parsley served your needs to a tee.’
   ‘Sir Sherlock,’ Yuán hissed, ‘you come here as our guest and...’ he crashed a hand down on the Mutoscope ‘... yet you return our hospitality with this gross intrusion on our internal affairs! My instincts should have warned me–you have formed a secret alliance with the Emperor to trap me! He has always wanted me to mount the Dragon-chariot. I took you for a junzi - a gentleman - but I now see you are nothing of the sort.
   Enough of this! Take my offer! I mean it. You have my word. Accept it. Become richer than ever your Empress Queen Victoria was. Hand over the flicker-book without further ado or...’ at which he broke into a smile more threatening than any dark look I had ever observed, ‘... there could be a most unfortunate accident. Two foreigners, two Englishmen, drowned at a water picnic on the K’un Ming Lake.
   The question would then arise,’ he added slyly, ‘what would these Englishmen want me to do with their corpses? Burial together with full honours in the vicinity of the Eastern Ch’ing Tombs, overlooking the graves of our great Ancestral Emperors? What a setting! The Changrui Mountain, Jinxing Mountain, Huanghua Mountain, and Yingfei Daoyang Mountain. In the fullness of time the people would revere them as gods. Like your fellow Englishman, the famed explorer of Africa, Dr. David Livingstone.’
   ‘Scotsman!’ I corrected hotly.
   The General looked puzzled.
   ‘Scotsman,’ I repeated. ‘Dr. David Livingstone was Scottish, not English.’
   ‘Scotsman it is,’ the general replied evenly. ‘What do you say? Hand this evidence over now and we’ll say nothing further, indeed we have costly goods to heap upon you, or ...’
   He drew a hand swiftly across his throat.
   ‘...would you prefer to become a couple ofShui gui.’
   The Empress Dowager had described such spirits at the jade cistern, the unhappy water-ghosts of those who drown.
   It was a display of pitiless power. I would recall to the end of my days the ruthless look, the set of the shoulders. Yuán was reputed to be the finest exponent of the Eighteen Arms of Wushu in the whole of China, with particular expertise in three of the weapons - the double-edged sword, the axe, the dagger halberd. Except for the presence of the pistol under my coat he could kill us with his bare hands.
   Staring mesmerized at the General I was transported thirteen years into the past, to when Holmes and I last encountered the odious Sebastian Moran. I described the Colonel inThe Adventure of the Empty House. The scene was a dark empty property in London. A captive stood before us. He was firmly held by two Scotland Yard police officers:
   ‘It was a tremendously virile and yet sinister face which was turned towards us. With the brow of a philosopher above and the jaw of a sensualist below, the man must have started with great capacities for good or for evil. But one could not look upon his cruel blue eyes, with their drooping, cynical lids, or upon the fierce, aggressive nose and the threatening, deep-lined brow, without reading Nature’s plainest danger-signals. He took no heed of any of us, but his eyes were fixed upon Holmes’s face with an expression in which hatred and amazement were equally blended.
   ‘You fiend!’ he kept on muttering. ‘You clever, clever fiend!’’
   I returned abruptly to the present. I was about to grab for my pistol and blurt out‘Do your worst, General!’ when Holmes intervened. The unruffled manner and stony calm of his face were vastly more impressive, more fateful, than the most passionate denunciation.
   ‘General,’ he began with a most pleasant expression, ‘burial among the Ch’ing emperors with the prospect of becoming gods is an attractive and generous thought. It is an offer Dr. Watson and I may take up one day, but not yet.’
   He pointed at the Mutoscope.
   ‘You may most certainly take the reel. Please do! I am sure Her Imperial Majesty will find it of the utmost...’
   ‘Holmes!’ I blurted out vehemently, ‘if you...’
   Swiftly my comrade broke back in.
   ‘My dear Watson, where is your courtesy? The General is our host! Who are we to begrudge him a copy? After all, he is a principal actor alongside Her Imperial Majesty and the Chief Eunuch. Of course the starring part was Li’s, dripping the poison into the Emperor’s ear not knowing it was the good ear - but did you observe the General’s performance clapping Li on the back as they tiptoed away through the fig-trees? Masterly! General, certainly you may take the Mutoscope to show Her Majesty.’
   Our guest moved to pick up the machine. Holmes’s hand holding the upside-down pipe shot forward.
   ‘But not for the moment. First let me divert a little. Remind me, please, your meeting in London with Sir Edward Grey and our War Minister - I believe you put them fully into the picture regarding China’s enemies, isn’t that so?’
   ‘I did, yes,’ came the General’s puzzled reply. ‘After all, at your recommendation Dr. Watson would soon...’
   ‘...be in the very thick of it,’ Holmes interrupted. ‘Quite right of you to do so. I believe you mentioned eight Great Powers in particular? Predatory Powers, you dubbed them.’
   In a theatrical aside Holmes asked,‘Isn’t that so, Watson?’
   ‘That’s true,’ I replied, as baffled as the General by the line of questioning.
   ‘And,’ Holmes continued, ‘didn’t our guest here describe his country as a hay cart, with everyone eager to take what they want from it?’
   ‘He did,’ I agreed.
   Holmes turned back to the General.
   ‘You even described which particular mouthfuls of hay these Predatory Powers wanted, I believe?’
   ‘Look, Sir Sherlock,’ Yuán responded uncomfortably, gesturing at the Mutoscope, ‘what’s all this talk to do with our present situation?’
   ‘Everything,’ Holmes said. ‘Everything, my dear General. I believe you said the Germans hold Kiaochow region and have their eye on Shantung?’
   ‘I did mention that, yes,’ the General replied. ‘But again, I don’t see...’
   Holmes continued,‘The French want Yunnan? And the Belgians Tianjin?’
   A further‘Yes’ seeped from the General’s lips.
   ‘You also disclosed the Russian Bear has a force of 150,000 troops ready to occupy Manchuria. Within days their brigades could march towards Peking from Khiva, Bukhara and Kok. Nor can we overlook Japan, ‘The Land of Dwarfs’, I believe you called them. Was it Fuhkien they hanker after? Wouldn’t the death of the Emperor from other than natural causes spur an invasion - he and the Modernists are vastly preferable to the outside world than the Empress Dowager and the Obstructionists. A smash-and-grab raid by the Great Powers wouldn’t leave much for Her Imperial Majesty, would it? It wouldn’t be our corpses interred overlooking the tomb of the Emperor Shunzhi. It would be hers, together with yours - or at least the trunk of your corpse. Your head might be left behind on a spike on the walls of Peking. I believe any such posthumous decapitation is a grievous disgrace.’
   The General’s tongue swept across his lips like a rattlesnake snake tasting the breeze. The air of menace which had radiated from him, at first terrifying, was slipping away into confusion and bewilderment.
   Holmes pressed on.
   ‘Am I also right in saying every one of these tigers, dwarfs and vultures have embassies here in Peking?’
   Yuán’s eyes darted swiftly from Holmes’s to mine and back.
   ‘And your point, Sir Sherlock? It is well known many Powers have representatives here in Peking.’
   I too remained in the dark on where my comrade was taking us. I could only hope it was further and further from the prospect of being held down in a canal in an hour or two, after opting to have my heart buried in the Hindu Kush.
   ‘Well, Watson,’ my companion said, ‘tell the General - how many other reels did you make before your chemicals ran out?’
   Alarmed, I croaked,‘Holmes, you know perfectly well we...’
   ‘...made eight, you confirm!’ Holmes returned loudly, as though repeating my words. ‘Yes, a lucky nine in total, General,’ he went on. ‘Dr. Watson has lodged the original and eight copies with His Britannic Majesty’s Ambassador. The container can only be destroyed on my authority. Inside it each copy has been labelled ‘For The Immediate Attention Of...’ the various legates and Ambassadors. I’m sure they too would find the Orchard scene of immense interest! It’s they who press reforms on your country. It’s they who most wish the Emperor to survive. His Excellency the Ambassador’s instructions are to keep the package sealed and under armed guard until further notice. As a safeguard the seal can be broken and the package opened in the event of Dr. Watson’s and my untimely death. An accidental drowning in the canal would most definitely trigger the release of the pictures.’
   No one spoke. It was my turn to stare from Holmes to the General and back. How would Yuán react? Could he tell Holmes was bluffing? If so, we should prepare ourselves for death.
   The seconds ticked past. Finally, Yuán broke into a smile. With an expansive gesture he said, ‘Gentlemen, we are forgetting our friendship! If not half the wealth of the world, whatquid pro quodo you demand for keeping the copies locked awaysine diein your Ambassador’s safe, destroying them even?’
   After a glance at our door, Holmes went to Yuán’s side and whispered something into his ear. The General placed a hand on the Mutoscope.
   ‘Understood,’ he returned aloud. ‘With your permission I shall have this magic lantern taken to the Old Buddha at once. I’ll return when we have discussed your request.’
   He reached for his long silk coat and with the other hand picked up the Mutoscope with impressive ease. Although it had been modified to sit on a counter by the removal of the original cast iron base, but it was by no means light. I walked alongside him to the door in an uncomfortable silence.
   Outside he asked,‘The samples of our native poisonous plants, who supplied them to you? The Emperor’s eunuch Kou - or Wang Feng?’
   ‘Not Kou,’ I stonewalled, quickly continuing, ‘General, out of my professional interest as a medical man, what did you plan to say the Emperor died from?’
   ‘Uraemia of the blood,’ Yuán replied. ‘The symptoms are similar to dying from poisoning by Fool’s Parsley, wouldn’t you agree?’
   I had seen this deadly affliction with the progressive loss of kidney function all too often.
   ‘Combined with the Emperor’s existing ailments, good enough,’ I replied. ‘Diurnal somnolence. Affection of the peripheral nervous system such as restless legs. Memory and concentration disorders. Asthenia. Confusion. Seizures. Coma and...’
   ‘...death in four or five days. Precisely, Doctor,’ came the reply. ‘On Day One - that would be today - he was to be considered in no danger. The sages would predict it auspicious for you and Sir Sherlock to depart Peking on your journey home. In three or four days’ time His Majesty’s condition would worsen. By Day Five you and Sir Sherlock would be on the High Seas just as the Emperor would mount the Dragon-chariot on the start of his own long journey.
   As for you, Doctor, I wanted to make you believe it was the Son of Heaven himself trying to trigger an uprising against the Old Buddha. If you’d become convinced of that, we could have declared the Emperor guilty of treason. The penalty would be the forfeiture of his life. We were convinced Sir Sherlock would fall for it. After all, you are bothlaowài - outsiders. Who would expect anyone from Europe to make head or tail of anything in our impenetrable and unfathomable Forbidden City? Tell me,’ he continued, ‘who or what was it which gave our plan away?’
   ‘You did, General. When you and I were talking in the Emperor’s Palace you used the words ‘method’ and ‘madness’. I passed them onverbatim to Sir Sherlock. He recognised Polonius’s words in Hamlet. Holmes was aware that no play with a regicide plot could have been performed in China. Someone must have seen the play performed elsewhere.’
   ‘On Brighton’s Pavilion Pier, for example,’ the General replied, smiling wryly.
   He patted the Mutoscope.
   ‘Well, I must mount my own chariot to the Summer Palace, Doctor. I don’t look forward to it. Pit me against five divisions of Boxers and their Eight Symbol Religion any time.’
   I was about to bid him goodnight when he opened his jacket. From a holster on a heavy leather belt he took out the finest side-arm I had ever seen and said,
   ‘You know, Doctor, for future reference, I can be dangerous when I’m taken by surprise, especially when myamour propre is compromised, as it was...’ he pointed back to the room, ‘in there.’
   ‘I understand, General,’ I exclaimed, awed by the pistol’s menace. ‘What make is it?’
   He handed it to me.
   ‘The new Colt. The M1907. Self-loading. One of only sixty-four prototypes.’
   ‘Muzzle velocity?’
   ‘830 feet per second. Heavy enough to drop even the most drugged attacker.’
   ‘Ah,’ I said admiringly.
   ‘You and Sir Sherlock were lucky,’ he continued. ‘I nearly shot you both. It’s so new that you and he would have been the first humans to die by this weapon. Messy, but preferable to drowning.’
   ‘I commend your restraint, General,’ I replied with feeling. ‘Was it fear of Great Britain’s retribution? After all, Sir Sher...’
   The General burst into laughter.
   ‘Restraint and Great Britain nothing, Dr. Watson! It was Sir Sherlock’s pipe that held me back. He had it trained rock-steady at me. What calibre was it, .22?’
   ‘.25 probably,’ I answered. ‘I expect I’ll see a few spent cartridges lying around his bee-farm.’
   ‘Nasty enough, though!’ the General said. ‘Through the heart!’
   He gestured at my waist.
   ‘And the one tucked under your morning coat?’
   ‘A top-breaker pistol.’
   ‘.476 calibre bullet?’
   I nodded. Each of us guffawed. I handed back the Colt pistol. We parted with a friendly shake of the hand.
   Chapter XIV
   Our Time in Peking Comes to its End
   I re-entered Holmes’s room to find him looking pleased with himself, thumbing tobacco into the familiar blackened clay pipe. There was no sign of the pipe-pistol.
   I hissed,‘Why in Heaven’s name did you let him take the Mutoscope away? You know it contains our only copy.’
   ‘My friend, we had no choice. A gun-fight was about to start. Letting him take the Mutoscope was our only option. Refusing his request would expose my bluff.’
   ‘What if he sees through you, Holmes?’
   ‘Then we won’t live to see the dawn,’ came the short reply. ‘However it’s a risk he can’t afford to take. The stakes are much too high. Such a blatant attempt on the Emperor’s life could be precisely the excuse the Powers are waiting for. Just like seven years ago they would invade inlock-step, eager for spoils, purporting to safeguard the Emperor’s life while gobbling up every inch of the land. It would mean nothing less than the complete dismemberment of his country.’
   ‘And what was it you whispered in Yuán’s ear?’ I asked.
   ‘Our terms.’
   ‘What terms are those?’
   Again he glanced at the door.
   ‘Anon, Watson, anon. Meantime we can only await the Empress Dowager’s response. I think we can deduce she won’t be pleased.’
   My mind flashed to the Queen of Hearts throwing a fit of temper:‘Off with her head. Off with her head. Off with her head! Off... with... her... head. Off with her head. Off with her head. Off with her head. Off with her head. I rule Wonderland alone. Your interference will not be tolerated.’
   ‘And the odds on our heads being spared?’ I asked.
   He paused.
   ‘A woman’s mind, Watson. That I can’t foretell.’* * *
   Our time in Peking had come to its end. Dogs bark. Caravans move off. Our heads were still on our shoulders. The sages-in-ordinary had fixed the day and even the auspicious hour, 2pm, for our departure. Our luggage was stowed in a large coach. Life in the Forbidden City had proved not only stranger than we supposed but stranger than we could ever suppose. Until we passed out of the territory under Peking’s direct control I decided to keep wearing my hat and lapel displaying the honours which the E-D had insisted on bestowing. Though their plans had gone badly wrong for the General and the Empress, they regrouped with extraordinary resilience. They were back in unassailable command.
   Despite now knowing my own invitation to China had come mainly as an afterthought I completed my assignment by adding a short chapter on modern pistols to the Field Book. I borrowed Yuán’s Colt and described its internal layout, function, field stripping and the evolution of the design.
   Once aboard our coach I tapped a finger on my pocket. My notebook was safely tucked on my person, the jottings for use asaides-memoire. Out of fear of mislaying it I had telegraphed much of the content to Mycroft Holmes. In the wrong hands, the material would be of considerable strategic value. If a German or Russian force wanted to attack and capture the Summer Palace my notes on the lake and the canal linking it to the city contained precise detail on the width and depth of the waters and how best to manoeuvre in them, even how to employ the Shishaquita and theYong-he in military terms.
   Particular memories of Peking would stay with me to the end of my days - the comforting roll of the Imperial palanquin taking me back and forth to visit the wounded Emperor, screened from prying eyes by the heavily embroidered silk hangings, listening to the grunts of the bearers picking their way through the maze of blue- and yellow-tiled palaces and pavilions. The Peony Terraces at the Summer Palace, the colours graduated up the hillside from deeper to the lighter hues at the top as though the landscape itself was fading away into the far distance.
   Had John Bunyan ever visited China I would have sworn Peking was the model for the town of Vanity inPilgrim’s Progress whose fair was filled with‘whores, bauds, masters, servants, lives, blood, bodies, souls, silver, gold, pearly, precious stones and whatnot’.
   Wang was waiting at the Gate to wish us a safe journey at the same spot among the row of young Pittosporum trees where I had first met him. He gave a deep bow, saying lyrically,‘May there be no violent wind or excessive rain in the skies on your journey, and no waves rising from the sea.’
   We thanked him for the companionable days spent together.
   ‘When we are back home Sir Sherlock and I will raise a glass to your esteemed ancestor Fang Bao,’ I told him.
   ‘One day I hope to come to see you in Ying-ji-li,’ he replied. ‘I have already learnt a lot from your way of life which will be of great benefit to my country.’
   ‘What are your immediate plans?’ I asked.
   ‘In the light of what Sir Sherlock and you have taught me I am composing a zhāngbiao, a secret Palace memorial, for the imperial courier to deliver direct to Her Majesty,’ came the reply. ‘Under lock and key to ensure it comes into her hands. I’ve things to say I wish the Empress Dowager alone to hear.’
   Precisely on the auspicious hour our carriage moved on through the great Ch’ien-Men Gate into ‘the Great Without’ for the last time. Briefly, like Alice, we had been strangers in an extraordinary land, as though we had fallen through a rabbit hole into the England of the Tudors, in the reign of the autocratic and capricious Faerie Queene. I looked forward to the friendly streets of London, the cheerfully-lit store windows, the men showing off their black astrakhan collars imported from Ballaarat, the multitudes of companionable strangers moving unceasingly down Regent Street. I especially yearned for England’s countryside, a place of steady and placid work where bells rang out for church. Goldcrests and swallows above the fields. Primroses, pyramid orchids, bluebells and dog’s mercury giving way to goldilocks buttercups. Hay-making.
   Peking’s high walls fell back. The paranoia seeping through the miasma of the Forbidden City, the crowded street-life, the parade of camels laden with coal from the mountains, all so recently stark, even oppressive, dropped away with the passing minute.
   We heard no more the cries of vendors, the harsh discordant sounds of dancers, scribes, wine sellers, jugglers, tumbling dwarfs. The charcoal sellers’ drums. The clack-clack-clack of hollow bamboo announcing the passage of a Chinese street doctor. All would fall silent. To the right of us lay temple-crowned hills, the upturned roofs nestling on the slopes. Only the watch-towers and the green tiles of the triple-domed Temple of Heaven remainedvisible from afar.
   I would not forget glancing back at the Great Ancestress after we had been dismissed from our final audience only that morning, the solitary, diminutive figure seated on a little yellow satin stool at the apex of the white marble Jade Girdle Bridge. She wore her favourite stork hairpin of coral, silver and pearls. The protective collar behind her neck drooped bright yellow bejewelled ribbons. The front of her dress was covered with similar beautiful large pearls, some disposed in the seal-character for long life. She sipped tea as she gazed out across the lake at the palaces and the pavilions, the setting which had been her life.
   At a respectful distance a large retinue of eunuchs stood silent and watchful, around them ladies-in-waiting and Palace maids bearing her shoes, handkerchiefs, combs, brushes, powder-boxes, looking glasses of various sizes, pins, perfumes, black and red ink, yellow paper, cigarettes, and water pipes. A further eunuch looked on, empty-handed, waiting to carry the yellow, satin-covered stool. Another eunuch who was a great expert on birds stood by his Mistress. At his high-pitched trill specially trained birds were released from bamboo cages nearby. They flew to a long, wand-like stick held out by the Empress Dowager, waiting to be fed with caterpillars, grasshoppers or grain brought for that purpose. I stared back at the impassive bird-trainer. It may have been he who took a young corvid from the nest and over months, a year even, taught it to fly to the shoulder of someone in a plain yellow beizi embroidered in the middle of the back with jewel-beetle wing-cases, the man who released the war-crow on that fateful day.
   To say our goodbyes, Holmes and I had been led to the Jade Girdle Bridge by the Chief Eunuch Li to be presented with parting honours and gifts. The Empress stood up as she heard our approach. She gave her slight, watchful smile. The honours and baubles were taken one by one from two heavily-laden eunuchs at her side and then passed back to them to be carried to our transport. Holmes received the High Order of the Double Dragon and the Manchu Flaming Pear, plus the Ancestral Rank of the First Class of the First Order for Three Generations, the latter bestowed on Holmes and his ancestors. It was the first time the Order had been conferred on a foreigner.
   ‘I’m certain past generations of my Celtic squires in theorbis alius will appreciate it greatly,’ Holmes remarked, tongue in cheek.
   The First Red Button Grade of the Mandarin was bestowed on me, with the ennobling of my descendants for three generations to equal rank, coral thumb-rings, the gold and pearl Imperial Order of the Double Dragon, the Double-Petalled Flower Feather, and the Purple Whip, plus the right to ride a horse around the Forbidden City. Tears flooded my eyes, startling the Empress Dowager. If only my darling Mary were alive. But for her untimely death we may have had descendants to entertain with the Red Button story.
   In turn, with an irony my comrade Holmes insisted upon, we presented the Dowager Empress with the Aeroscope camera. The Empress lifted her closed hands under her chin and made a series of little bows. The disarming and graceful gesture of the closed hands from an autocrat who for a moment in Holmes’s and my life had wielded - but not exercised - the power of death over us took us by surprise.
   The Celestial Ruler remained standing for a few more seconds, holding her smile like the thespian awaiting the drop of the stage-curtain. We stepped away, keeping our faces towards her until she turned back, seated herself, and resumed looking out on the most beautiful vista in all China, even the world. It was time to celebrate. We were returning home alive. I reached for my tin-box and extracted the precious box of Trichinopoly cheroots.
   Just after we passed out of the City walls Holmes seemed to catch my thoughts.
   ‘Cixi will go down in history, Watson, mark my words,’ he said. ‘The Old Buddha is wonderfully adapted for the hostile milieu of life in the Forbidden City. She is the perfect Darwinian exemplar of the survival of the fittest.’
   Holmes was right, I reflected. Justice is approximate. The Venerable Ancestress must be judged not by our standards but her own. She was no more a savage monster than she was the benevolent Lady Bountiful described by the simpering ladies of the Diplomatic Body. To my sympathetic eye the Empress of the Western Palace had become a figure engulfed in loneliness. Out of sight toiled 400 million souls whose fate lay in her hands, more than all the peoples of Europe and America combined. Neither she nor I nor the High Court itself could know she had no more than twenty months of earthly existence left.
   Every hour took us a few more miles further from the Purple City. I had left Peking behind as perplexed as I had been throughout my stay there. My natural sympathy for the Kuang-hsü Emperor had grown considerably. We were laden with honours and treasure ostensibly for saving his life yet the minute the news reached the Forbidden City of our departure another attack could be made on him, as merciless and probably far more direct than the one Holmes’s brilliance had foiled.* * *
   Shortly before dusk we came to the railway station for the final leg to Shanghai. Aboard the train Holmes took down a jade box given to him by the Empress Dowager.
   ‘I think we can open this now,’ he said, prising up the lid.
   He withdrew an object about five inches in height and leant forward to pass it to me. It contained all the principal parts of the human body made out of gold, jade and pearls.
   ‘The Old Buddha has a fine sense of irony,’ Holmes said. ‘When the crow was set on the Emperor do you recall which particular Temple he was due to pray at?’
   ‘The Temple of Longevity,’ I replied.
   ‘As you say - The Temple of Longevity. Yet she wanted him dead at a mere thirty-six years of age.’
   Looking down at the figurine I asked‘Where does her sense of irony show in this?’
   ‘It represents her favourite deity, Kwan Yin, Goddess of the Compassion and Mercy,’ came the reply.
   Another hour passed. For some time Holmes had been staring out of the compartment window, his forehead scored with thought. Without turning his face to me he said,‘Yuán must have asked himself time and again whether it would be better for him to come down on the Empress Dowager’s side or the Emperor’s. He must have known it would be a close-run thing. Which side would come out on top if a conflict broke out? If he jumped and discovered too late he’djumped the wrong way he knew he could die the death of a thousand cuts.’
   ‘You seemed surprisingly lenient on him,’ I returned a little stiffly. ‘You chose to let him go scot-free, his reputation unsullied. Why? Is it because the General is such a dyed-in-the-wool admirer of all things English?’
   ‘Not at all, Watson. Only the E-D could have ordered the Emperor’s assassination. The lion was the Empress Dowager. Yuán was merely the jackal.’
   ‘There’s a question which has been niggling me for some time, Holmes,’ I said.
   This time I was treated to the cautious scrutiny I knew so well.
   ‘Which is, my dear Watson?’
   ‘At no time almost to the point our departure from the Peking did you bring me into your confidence. I am therefore far behind in my notes on the case. Surely you know by now I can keep a secret!’
   ‘I did so on purpose. Our lives were in jeopardy. You had to be kept in the dark to safeguard you - and not incidentally myself - from any possibility you might let slip a hint we were on Yuán’s tracks. We may never have seen the white cliffs of Dover again, let alone spend a day together at the Gatwick Races. My bees would have been orphaned, your illustrious London patients abandoned to their fate.
   We had nothing to protect us until we had the evidence of the Aeroscope pictures. One awkward pause, one evasive reply from you to any of his questions and Yuán’s sharp mind would have been on thequi viveat once, too early for us to bait the trap. One slip of the tongue, one hint we were interested in his activities in Brighton - which led us to the fact he attended a production of Hamlet - or his route from Brighton to Sherborne which led us to his walk in the New Forest, and you and I would have found ourselves alongside Hamlet’s ghost, explorers in that undiscovered country ‘from whose borders no traveller returns’.’
   ‘Enlighten me now,’ I enjoined.
   ‘Starting where?’ Holmes replied, in an accommodating tone.
   I took out my notebook.
   ‘From the beginning, if you don’t mind.’
   ‘The beginning was a long time coming - until you remarked that a shattered eardrum is about as rare as a lunar eclipse yet you had administered to two such injuries in two days... Add in the characters and the settings - Chief Eunuch Li administering the violent cuff to a eunuch, the Emperor attacked by a crow carrying a firecracker - and at the very least the coincidence bore further investigation.’
   ‘How early on did you conclude General Yuán was involved?’
   ‘The moment the Emperor implicated him.’
   I looked up from my notebook in surprise.
   ‘But Holmes, you were never alone with the Emperor. I was with you at the Palace every minute. He did no such thing!’
   ‘He most certainly did,’ Holmes replied, grinning broadly. ‘Just as we were leaving his presence. He was lying on the couch with the Empress Dowager and Yuán hanging over him.’
   Suddenly a recollection flooded back.
   ‘His finger,’ I cried. ‘The way he was rotating it in the air. Was that some sort of code?’
   ‘You might call it a code,’ came the reply. ‘In Mandarin the word for a round object - like a round coin - isyuán. Hence the circling finger.’
   I said,‘The General might well have been acting entirely on his own, a rogue assassin. It’s well-known he and the Emperor are at daggers drawn. What set your thoughts off in the E-D’s direction?’
   ‘That business with the beizi. Why did the Empress send him a cloak at all? She had a great deal else to think about, rushing off to the Ancestral tombs. She would have known there was at least one feng ling stashed aboard theShishaquita for the Emperor to wear in rain or damp air. Clearly if a plot was brewing the beizi must be playing a part.’
   ‘It was crucial because of the embroidery, Holmes, surely?’
   ‘They could have embroidered a feng ling in precisely the same way. Then it struck me. The hood. A feng ling has a sturdy hood. A beizi does not. The Emperor may well have raised the feng ling hood over his head against the damp air. That would have prevented the firecracker shattering the eardrum. The plot would have stalled at the very moment the curtain rose. The E-D would certainly know the hood of a feng ling from personal experience. She told you how she had to flee the city to save herself from attack. She put on a feng ling - and why?Because it had a hood. The hood helped disguise her. At all costs, for the plot against her nephew to succeed, she had to stop him donning one.
   She came up with a brilliant idea, a show of contrition for the so-called last-minute change of plan, setting off for the Eastern Tombs. A gift of one of her beizis to ward off the damp air would show her concern, a beizi primed with the vital embroidery to catch the crow’s eye - but crucially lacking a hood.
   Then I returned to the embroidery, why the lack of embroidery other than the sigils on the back. Why was this beizi so different from her others? The answer had to be the crow was trained to fly to that particular patch - but how was it able to identify the sigils? Everything about the plot was ingenious. It could well have defeated us completely. However, it was the necessity for the Emperor to wear the beizi which trapped her on the horns of a dilemma.’
   ‘Which was?’ I asked, pencil poised.
   ‘The cape had to fit the Emperor yet she couldn’t betray she had tailored and embroidered it specially for him. Otherwise, like footsteps on wet cement, the crow attack might be traced straight back to the Summer Palace. If the beizi had really been hers, it would have been tailored for her small size, in which case the Emperor would struggle to pull it on over his ceremonial clothing. He might cast it aside in favour of a shipboard feng ling. She pretended the coat was hers but there was another reason even apart from its size that contradicted this. Yellow is the colour of the Imperial Dynasty. It’s well-known it doesn’t suit her complexion. None of the clothing she wears exposes so much yellow - but to avoid confusing the crow the rest of the cloak had to remain free of any other adornment - ribbons, jewels and so on. It was a risk she had to take.’
   ‘I’ve been meaning to ask you about that patch, Holmes,’ I said. ‘What brought it so forcibly to your attention? Can a crow be trained to fly to a cloak bearing a circle containing nine rather than eight dragons?’
   ‘It was trained to fly at that particular sigil, yes, but not for the reason you may suppose. It wasn’t the fact the sigils were dragons and represented chaos magic or that there were nine of them which attracted the bird.’
   ‘Then what, Holmes?’
   A slight smile flickered at the corners of his mouth. He pointed to my note-book.
   ‘Did you write up our conversation about jewel-beetle elytra and ultra-violet light?’
   I flipped back through the pages.
   ‘Yes, and what mumbo-jumbo it was!’ I remarked.
   By now the train was going at speed. Holmes reached into a pocket for a briar. He began to thumb tobacco into it. Soon the blue smoke was curling upwards, making a sudden dart to the open window as it was sucked away.
   ‘I am quite pleased with myself over this, Watson,’ he continued. ‘Earlier this year I chanced across an article by Hajime Matsubara, an ornithologist connected with the Japanese Bird Research Association. Matsubara put forward the proposition that a crow’s kinetic vision is highly developed, to the point the bird can be trained to identify a particular object by UV signal - for example someone wearing jewel-beetle ornamentation which reflects UV strongly. If Matsubara’s work is well known in Japan, it would most likely be well-known to the E-D’s bird experts here in China.’
   ‘My prophetic soul,’ I breathed. ‘That was quite astonishingly clever of you, Holmes.’
   ‘I thought so too,’ came the not altogether self-mocking reply.
   ‘One last thing,’ I said. ‘You took two very considerable risks in settling this affair to your satisfaction, Holmes. The first I accept was forced on you. You had to convince General Yuán we had a stack of copies of the events Kou filmed or we might be dead by now.’
   ‘The second?’
   ‘You told Yuán point-blank he had purchased a book of Britain’s poisonous plants. That was a shot in the dark. You knew nothing of the sort. It paid off but it could as easily have wrecked...’
   ‘Not such a shot in the dark as you might suppose, Watson,’ came the reply. ‘The plan to kill the Emperor was well in hand even before Yuán was in Brighton preparing to continue on to Sherborne. He must have been deliberating over whether the Emperor’s death at the order of the Old Buddha and the Obstructionists would have the result they intended. Murdering the Emperor entailed severe personal risk. It might trigger an uprising among the Modernists and cause the overthrow of the Old Buddha instead - himself along with her.
   At that stage the plot was more straight-forward. They planned to use an explosive powerful enough to blow the Emperor’s head off and sink theShishaquita. They could announce the boiler exploded, taking the Emperor and Kou to the bottom of the lake, but the Emperor was known to take a particular interest in the river-boat. Servicing and checking the boiler and engine would be a very high priority. Suddenly, there before the General, on the Pavilion Pier in Brighton, in the opening moments of Hamlet, the idea for a whole new plan fell into place. King Hamlet’s brother, the murderer, had faced exactly the same dilemma - how to make the victim’s death look due to unhappy but natural causes? Shakespeare supplied the answer. By the use of a slow-acting but deadly plant toxin.
   Yuán would need to check whether pouring a poison into the ear would do its work, but a high-ranking officer has access to the finest medical science. He would be told the eardrum had first to be shattered. Shakespeare spoke of ‘cursed hebenon’ so there must be deadly plants in England, but how could Yuán identify them? In the event it was easy enough. China is a literate society par excellence. He is a literate man. The obvious answer was to hurry to the best book-shop in town. Lo and behold, at your suggestion he was going to visit Blackwell’s anyway, to purchase Wisden’s Almanack for his sons.’
   Chapter XV
   Holmes Unfolds the Last Piece of the Jigsaw
   Ourtrain halted for lunch conveniently by a wayside tavern. The dish of roe deer was accompanied by small root vegetables, bamboo shoots, lily, Chinese yam, and mountain pears. Over a dessert Holmes mused,‘You may have noted over the years I’m not a whole-souled admirer of womankind but I must at least modify that statement. It’s no longer entirely true.’
   ‘Might you be referring to the E-D by any chance?’ I asked impishly.
   He nodded.
   ‘She has many of the pleasing traits of the Manchu,’ Holmes continued, ‘yet if you become virtual ruler of the Middle Kingdom at the age of twenty-four how should you learn to put away the hideous barbarities of the Forbidden City’s ways? She was trained early in life in the traditions of acourt where human life counts for little.’
   For a long while I sat in silence, my spirit troubled. Finally, a sigh burst from me. It caught my comrade’s attention.
   ‘My dear fellow,’ he exclaimed, ‘you’re not nostalgic already for the open sewers of the Purple City...’
   ‘Not in the slightest, Holmes,’ I answered brusquely. ‘I’m troubled because we suffered a defeat. We return to England and the Emperor may die at any time. What do we tell Sir Edward Grey? And Haldane? That we abandoned the Emperor to the kindness of the E-D’s heart, the woman whose pitiless and brutal capacities you have just described so well?’
   I reiterated emphatically,‘Failed. Utterly. Sir Edward asked you to ensure the Emperor survives two years at least, until matters between us and a certain lunatic in Berlin become clearer, or the Empress Cixi herself passes away.’
   I pointed back towards the Forbidden City.
   ‘Yet here we are, running away, tails between our legs. By now the Mutoscope cards are smoke, the Aeroscope dashed to pieces. We have abandoned the Emperor to a desperate end, conceivably within days, at most weeks of our departure.’
   My companion’s eyebrows lifted an eloquent half-inch. He perused me without the slightest expression of dismay. With what struck me as unseemly playfulness he said, ‘Failed, Watson? Nonsense. Did I forget to tell you about my arrangements with General Yuán?’
   Holmes rose to put his head out of the window, pulling it back with‘Well, I think we’re near enough out of the Old Buddha’s control. Would you like to know what we agreed?’
   ‘My good friend,’ I answered, between gritted teeth, ‘how very clever of you to divine my curiosity! Are you sure you aren’t a Consulting Detective?’* * *
   Holmes replenished the tobacco in his briar.
   ‘Settle back in your seat. Comfortable, aren’t they! These carriages are made in Birmingham, you know.’
   He pointed at the floor.
   ‘There’s a brass plate saying so...’
   ‘Holmes!’ I yelped, pencil at the ready. ‘Do get on with it!’
   At which the last piece of the jigsaw was unfolded. Even now I consider it the gravest risk Europe’s most famous Consulting Detective took in his long and near-flawless career.
   ‘Above all,’ he began, ‘I had to obtain the Great Ancestress’s word of honour. You know how much weight she places on propitiating the Great Ancestors. I told the General in no uncertain terms the E-D must give her solemn word on the souls of those very ancestors. Not one hair of the Emperor’s head should be hurt for a period of at least two years.’
   ‘And you would take her at this word of hers?’ I exclaimed, aghast. ‘Her word alone?’
   He chuckled.
   ‘Her word alone, no. I said I would require her signature on an Imperial Decree. It was to be written in the official manner, on special Imperial yellow paper, the text written in her own hand in Manchu, Chinese and Mongol, and signed in vermilion ink from cinnabar in the same manner as the Emperor.’
   He retired the briar to a pocket in his Poshteen Long Coat and took out a cigarette.
   ‘I mention vermilion ink for a reason. You see, she places a great deal of importance on Imperial Decrees, except Wang told me she has a very cunning trick when she doesn’t want a particular Decree to retain its force. She signs with pencil which can fade within weeks.’
   Dismayed by his complacency I demanded,‘Why would so powerful a ruler bother to obey? She would consider your stipulation utter insolence.’
   He leaned back and blew little wavering rings of smoke.
   ‘You ask what will make an Empress Dowager stick to her promise? In a word, mockery, Watson. An ounce of derision is worth a dozen broadsides from a Dreadnought’s guns. It’s true there’s no way the Empress Dowager and General Yuán can be overthrown while every man in China fears them but they would fall in a trice if four hundred million citizens mock them. Mockery is a weapon of such power not even the most intractable dictator can withstand it. Keeping Face, fear of shame, and dread of ridicule are more deeply ingrained in the Chinese character than in any other nation under the sun. The Old Buddha could visualise the reaction of every governor of every province of China if they watched your film. The soldiery of the New Army. Every weathercock Mandarin. Even the three thousand eunuchs in the Forbidden City. And what of the world’s ambassadors? The Empress Dowager and the General tip-toeing towards a sleeping Emperor to watch Li Lien Ying pour poison into an ear they’ve deliberately shattered a week or so before - only to discover they hadn’t poured it into the shattered ear after all! Yuán took my demands to Her Majesty. An hour later he returned with the response.’
   ‘Which was?’ I queried.
   ‘The Empress had agreed with one non-negotiable condition.’
   ‘Being?’
   ‘That in turn we must acceptherterms.’
   Holmes pointed up to the racks above our heads.
   ‘That she should be allowed to shower upon us every conceivable high honour available to her.’
   My comrade paused to observe the incredulity writ large on my face.
   ‘Why, Watson,’ he continued, ‘do you think the Old Buddha plied us with all the honours and mementos she could heap upon us? When she conferred the Ancestral Rank of the First Class of the First Order for Three Generations on me she whispered in my ear, ‘Sir Sherlock, you and Dr, Watson came like strangers from the farthest star in the firmament. You interrupted the flow of our history. You gave life back to the Emperor. In doing so you have rekindled hope among the Modernists, thereby endangering my throne. You have imprisoned my soul in that Mu.to.scope. Yet I can’t have my peoplegaining the impression I was involved in a dastardly plot against the Son of Heaven. I must therefore be seen publicly to shower you with these gifts and honours, as your reward for saving the Emperor’s life’.’
   Still chortling, Holmes repeated Yuán’s account of the meeting in detail:
   ‘‘I tell you, Sir Sherlock,’ the General told me, ‘it wasn’t easy. First she looked into the Mutoscope with fear and loathing. Then she stood back in complete silence. Then she shouted, ‘The flicker-book must be destroyed at once!’ I put forward the dangers to Her Imperial Majesty’sEmpire - even to her Dynasty - if we did not accede to your demands, the demands, I pretended, of Sir Edward Grey. I said I feared Sir Edward too was ready with his battleships to come and destroy the Forbidden City. She said no-one imposes demands on the ruler of the Celestial Kingdom. ‘Destroy the flicker-book!’ she repeated. I told her we could do that but there were more copies of the film. ‘Destroy them too!’ she blazed. I explained they were at the British Embassy awaiting Sir Sherlock’s orders to distribute them to each of the Great Powers.
   After a long silence she asked me your terms. I told her she would have to put in writing that she wouldn’t have the Emperor put to death for at least two years. I tell you, Sir Sherlock,’ Yuán went on, ‘it evoked the most spectacular display of the Divine Wrath I’ve ever seen. The Benevolent Countenance went black as thunder. Her eyes were like shooting daggers. Her lip fell. The veins in her forehead bulged. She showed her teeth as if suffering from lockjaw.’
   Holmes continued,‘Yuán ended with, ‘I may be a General in command of half a million men but the cold concentrated fury nearly scared the soul out of me’.’
   ‘But did she agree to the Emperor’s safety?’ I asked.
   ‘Yes, but not for la longue durée.’
   I persisted,‘Has she guaranteed two years, at least?’
   ‘She has.’
   ‘In writing?’I asked, openly delighted.
   He pointed to a pocket in his Poshteen Long coat.
   ‘In writing,’ came the reply. ‘He’s safe for the while. However, as our friend Shakespeare said, ‘If you can look into the Seeds of Time, and say which Grain will Grow and which will Not, speak then unto me’.’* * *
   I fell into a deep reverie to the soothing motion of the train and awoke to see my companion staring out of the carriage window at the immense landscape. I asked,‘And what of the Empress Dowager? When she dies, will China have a better future, do you suppose?’
   Holmes shrugged.
   ‘We must give this remarkable woman credit. She may be the ruler of a degenerate Dynasty that has long outlived its usefulness, a law unto herself, but look how she comes out of every Palace intrigue with both feet on the ground. I wager when she leaves the scene she will do so with a steadfast and Imperial dignity.’
   ‘And General Yuán?’
   ‘A most remarkable man. By no means has the world heard the last of him. He regards the rest of us as ants and termites completely at his disposal. Duplicity is his stratagem. When it suits him, he will betray and usurp the Manchu dynasty with hardly a second thought.’
   It was late afternoon. We wended our way along the corridor to the Dining car. Over the entrée I picked up our earlier topic.
   ‘And what now of England’s rôle in China?’ I asked Holmes.
   His hand swept across the broad landscape.
   ‘London has control over more than ten million square miles and a fifth of the world’s population. It creaks already. We don’t need to add another four hundred million Chinese. Otherwise I would have let the plot succeed.’
   ‘And handed the flick-book to England’s tai-pans and Old China Hands?’
   ‘Yes. They would have forced the Prime Minister to make a choice - let China sink into violent civil war or incorporate the Sacred Earth And Divine Land into the British Empire.’* * *
   Back in our private compartment I glanced at the luggage rack above my companion’s head. The Old Buddha had made sure many wonderful things both inexpensive and costly had been showered on us. To the side of the camp-stool sat my travelling tin-box with ‘John H. Watson, M. D. Late Indian Army’ in flaking gold paint on the lid. It was weighted down with the nine thousand taels of silver paid to me by General Yuán ‘for professional services’ rendered to China’s New Army.
   Next to it were two other pieces of luggage. In the one suitcase were further souvenirs. In the second case were more gifts. These included a signed photograph of the E-D taken with my plate camera with a marginal note‘Dr. Watson to deliver in person to His Majesty King-Emperor Edward’.
   Only slightly less exotic than the myriad gifts was an item bought from my own pocket at Mycroft’s request - 10lbs of Da Hong Pao oolong tea, handmade from leaves withered, tumbled, curled and baked in small batches over charcoal.
   I looked up at the familiar tin-box containing the very generous payment. On my return to England I would order the American luxury Aerocar with the air-cooled 24 horse power engine. I could then visit Cordings to be measured for a new tweed jacket. A sunny weekend would see me driving the monster automobile to the Gatwick Races, a copy of the‘Pink ‘un’ (theSporting Times) tucked into the glove-compartment.
   I heard Holmes’s voice.
   ‘You mustn’t, Watson,’ he admonished.
   ‘Mustn’t what?’ I countered.
   ‘For as long as we’ve known each other you have waged and lost your Army pension on the ponies. You mustn’t take these earnings to the races,’ he said, a finger pointing upwards at my battered old tin-box. ‘You’ll lose the lot.’
   ‘Holmes!’ I gasped, ‘this is too much. You would certainly have been burned at the stake had you lived a few centuries ago. How well you read my...’
   ‘Not your mind, Watson! The expression of divine contentment on your face - it spells out ‘the horses’!’
   Again we broke into helpless laughter.* * *
   The liner taking us across the ocean was named theMongolia. I met Holmes on the promenade deck after overseeing the transport of our considerable impedimenta to the cabins. From under our feet came the deep, slow thrumming of the engines. The waters around us were as busy as the Thames at Wapping. Wherries plied between ocean shipping and the shore. Coasting vessels flew the red, white and black flag of the Kaiser’s mercantile marine.
   ‘Well,’ I said, a residual fear of sudden arrest dropping away, ‘soon we shall be steaming past the White Cliffs of Dover. Then you to your bee-hives!’
   ‘Indeed,’ Holmes replied. ‘And you to your surgery.’
   As we uttered these cheery words a tender drew alongside the ship. A man dressed in Chinese Army uniform at about the level of Lieutenant appeared to recognise us. He waved, signalling he had a message. Once on deck he reached into a pocket and retrieved a document. It was a letter for Sherlock Holmes from General Yuán.
   Holmes stretched out a hand. The subaltern stepped back sharply. He was adamant.‘Sir Sherlock’ could read the letter but not take it in hand. The soldier had sworn an oath not to read its contents, and on pain of death he was to return it to the General.
   For a minute Holmes peered at the script. Without a word he stepped back, inviting me to take his place.
   Except for the heading‘chéngwén’ (Memorandum) it was in English:
   ‘Dear Sir Sherlock, first may I wish you a pleasant voyage home. I hope soon other matters will distract you from our little contretemps. By now you will have discovered that when anyone manoeuvres for power in China he (or she) must risk everything on the turn of a card. Your faithful comrade-in-arms Dr. Watson will know there are crises where, as your Hamlet says, ‘My thoughts be bloody, or nothing worth’.
   This letter serves to compliment and admonish you alike for your admirable concern for the Kuang-hsü Emperor’s survival. Foiling our little game was a triumph of deduction of the first order, but it may have terrible consequences for my country. The Middle Kingdom has learnt through dreadful experience there can be no humanitarianism in ever-recurring rebellions. They are but one phase in thedeadly struggle for life. Survival of the fittest implies the extermination of the unfit. Don’t you see in this Emperor the embodiment of Hamlet, a man who loathes himself and his fate? Like Hamlet he aspires to be decisive but is indecisive. Like Hamlet he is lost in the fog of his own madness. Hamlet seeks to revenge but stretches the moment of revenge as long as he can - how does this differ from the feelings of the Son of Heaven towards his aunt, the Empress Dowager?
   Worst of all, the Emperor has no interest in defence matters. He prefers not to think about them. Instead he practices calligraphy on fans and displays his treasured stone-rubbing collections to visitors. Our coasts have been left indefensible, wide open to invaders. Our gunboats are used for smuggling, their gun-barrels for laundry hangers.
   You may see His Imperial Majesty as a tragic hero struggling to do his best, but his destiny must not be to become the puppet of an alien race. With his survival China has been left in the greatest danger. It is not the Reformists we should fear. They remain of concern but not consequence. It is Tokyo which flatters and misleads a weak and deeply-suggestible Emperor. Even as I write, word has come that Japan’s villainous military attaché General Fukishima Yasumasa is at large in Hunan Province, assessing the likely impact of Dr. Watson’s reforms in revitalising the New Army.
   I am convinced only the Empress Dowager can best safeguard China. With great clarity she sees Japan for the danger it is. Allowing the Emperor to live, worse, obliging her to guarantee his life for two more years, leaves the Dynasty in constant danger. She will abide by her word but we tread on frost over ice.
   Internally too the Middle Kingdom remains in deep trouble. The August Mother will never countenance a State in which the laws of the ancestors have become obsolete. She holds that so splendid, so weighty a civilization as ours cannot afford to disturb its underpinnings lest the entire edifice crumbles. The ship of state would become rudderless. It would cast itself adrift on a chaotic sea, at the mercy of any wind. To her the dogs of change should be allowed to sleep.
   When the Old Buddha mounts the dragon for her journey to the Nine Springs, China will be in greater trouble still. Like a fan in Autumn, one day she will be laid upon a shelf. We say‘When the tree falls, the shade is gone’.
   We must hope that the Great Ancestress lives at least as long as her adopted son, otherwise the map will undergo the most terrible transformation, to the disadvantage not only of Asia but to the Western Powers too. Japan already has Korea and Formosa. Her appetite for conquest is unquenchable. Tokyo will not stop at China, vast as we are, indigestible as we may make ourselves, like the pufferfish. She will want Baluchistan and Burmah and Malaya and Laos and Cambodia. One day even England may find herself in hand-to-hand combat withDai Nippon Teikoku, the‘Great Japanese Empire’.
   When you see Sir Edward Grey and your War Minister give them my kindest regards. Tell them the Empires of China and England hang together, even as lips and teeth. Beg them to sell no more first-class battleships to the Japanese. The Ironclads will be used ruthlessly against us.
   Implore them to pay heed to my words. This would be the greatest honour to me. Tell them I, even a General, must bow my head to the circumstances of the moment in the Middle Kingdom’s long history. It is truly said, ‘The great man will always frame his actions with careful regard for the exigencies of the moment, and trim his sail to the favouring breeze,’ yet I am and will always remain England’s staunchest friend in the whole of Asia.
   And, Sir Sherlock, please give my salutations to a fellow officer, your great friend Dr. Watson. Did he mention I have made him an Honorary Colonel in the New Army? His uniform will await him at his London premises.Yuán Shì-kaiGrand Councillor and Foreign Minister’
   I nodded at the subaltern. He placed the letter in a pocket, stepped back a pace and saluted. We followed his movements until he stepped off the gangplank into the tender, dropping into the waving handkerchiefs and shrill goodbyes of relatives and friends of departing passengers. He turned, glanced up at us, and saluted once more.
   With‘Well, Colonel Watson, we can do without this on my person now’, Holmes reached into his pocket and pulled out the pipe-pistol he had pointed at General Yuán’s heart. I held out a hand for the formidable weapon. The aluminium stem unscrewed for loading. A knurled screw near the centre servedas the trigger. Tucked in the wooden bowl were five extra cartridges.
   ‘Holmes,’ I said, handing it back. ‘I admit I too was worried when the subaltern turned up. Were we about to be hauled off the ship and arrested? Was General Yuán about to have us returned to the Forbidden City, or worse, transported in coffins to the Ancestral Tombs?’
   ‘Not the General,’ Holmes replied. ‘The Empress Dowager, perhaps, but never Yuán.’
   There was something in his tone, an innuendo I didn’t understand.
   ‘Why do you say ‘Not the General’? Why not? He has the power until we sail into international waters.’
   ‘Power, yes, but ambition too,’ came the response. ‘I’m in no doubt Yuán hankers after a Dynasty of his own. The last thing he needs is English blood on his hands - look how he managed to restrain himself over the Aeroscope reel. I’m not sure whether a .25 bullet from this (he pointed athis pocket) would have penetrated all that clothing. He wants England and our Empire on his side. Let’s say the Old Buddha and the Emperor die within a short while of each other, hours even - such things happen in China. Who would be best placed to overthrow the Ch’ing, usurp the Throne, order a large jade seal, and two imperial robes, and set up his own Dynasty?’
   He paused, the eyes twinkling.
   ‘...though for your readers it would have been quite poetic to meet our doom in the Purple City, with an offer of a place of pilgrimage near the Ch’ing Dynastic Tombs. ‘Alas, here lie the mortal remains of Dr. Watson, late of the Indian Army, far far from the Gatwick Races’.’
   ‘‘And his great Friend, the Consulting Detective Sherlock Holmes, far, far from his bees’,’ I added.* * *
   It was high tide. Beneath us the wash from the aptly-named Yellow Sea was a turbid yellow, coloured by a flood of rich soil from far-distant Central Asian mountain ranges, the red loam of the Red Basin of Sze Chuan, the grey and yellow alluvium of China’s central provinces, swept down by the great Yangtze to merge with the cyan blue of the Pacific Ocean.
   TheMongolia’s horn gave one long blast. Smoke belched from the 13,000 ton ship’s great stack. I took a last, lingering look at the harbour and beyond it the marshy flats and the vast reach of Cathay. Across the Pacific lay San Francisco, the Paris of the West, a city of fog. Thence overland to Boston and a further sea crossing to Europe. Soon the lofty white hulks for bonded Indian opium, the foreign ‘hongs’, the shipping offices, filatures and cotton mills with their ceaseless clang, big brown-sailed junks with huge rudders, and great white two-storeyed paddle arks from Ningpo and Hankow would shrink away and, like the Forbidden City and the Summer Palace, become a distant memory.
   A telegraphic message was delivered to the cabin. General Yuán was ordering full-scale manoeuvres at Hochien comprising nine Divisions, a demonstration of strength designed to subdue insurgent elements at home and grasping hands abroad. My appointment as an Honorary Colonel had been gazetted.
   At Dinner Holmes picked his way in a desultory fashion through the Consommé Olga, and the Poached Salmon With Mousseline Sauce. I asked if he was suffering from mal-de-mer still within sight of land. He shook his head. The silence continued until the Waldorf Pudding when he took out a pipe and said, ‘It’s hard to believe we shall ever in our remaining years engage in anything as wondrous as our time here.’
   I agreed that while that may be true, I was looking forward to oysters and a brace of grouse at the Tiger Inn, with something a little choice in white wines - and perhaps another of our own familiarmeurtresà l’anglaise courtesy of a baffled Scotland Yard.
   ‘Nevertheless, for the record, Holmes,’ I said, at last laying down the dessert spoon, ‘there’s still something I haven’t grasped.’
   The pipe with its freshly-coiling smoke came away from my comrade’s mouth.
   ‘Which is, old chap?’ came the amiable reply.
   ‘It wasn’t until I quoted Yuán’s words ‘If this is a plot there may be method in their madness’ late on that the connection to the murder of King Hamlet struck you. By then you had already concluded the puncturing of the Emperor’s eardrum was not some bizarre accident or foolish prank but stage one in a plot of exceptional cunning. How?’
   ‘Take the crow,’ came the reply. ‘Its behaviour. There are eight species of corvidae breeding in the Downs around my bee-farm - the carrion crow, the raven, the rook, the jackdaw, the jay, the magpie and so on. I know first-hand that no wild crow recently captured and then released would go anywhere near people. This one not only flew straight to the Emperor, it settled on his shoulder. It must have been trained from the nest to do so. If it had learnt to fly to just any shoulder it could have flown in all the points of the compass to discover a human-being to land on. Why the Emperor? He was no friend to the crow. You recall he shuddered at the memory. Clearly it was no pet of his yet it recognised something about him and sought a reward. Even the spot from which the crow was released ensured it came at the Emperor from the right, an unlucky direction. That alone pointed at a malevolent mind behind the attack.’
   I followed this with another question.
   ‘It’s clear to me the Empress Dowager lost patience with the Emperor long ago. We know she and Yuán maintain that his very existence encourages the Japanese to dare the colonisation of China, with him as their puppet. Even training the crow means they must have planned the assassination for months. If so, why invite a world-famous Consulting Detective to Peking in the first place? Moreover, why, having done so, didn’t they speed our exit before the plot commenced? It doesn’t make sense. They even delayed the day of our departure on the grounds it had to be auspicious. It was during that period the war-crow was let loose on the Emperor. They could easily have waited. It was as though they wanted to carry out the assassination while you were there.’
   ‘That’s exactly what they wanted. The E-D together with Yuán and Li believed they had hatched and honed a plot so clever, so foolproof, that nobody in the world would spot it.’
   ‘Hubris?’
   ‘No doubt.’
   ‘But why take such a risk? Would any benefit accrue from you being there?’
   ‘My reputation is strong in the world outside China. If I had failed to spot a murder had been committed - even an Emperor’s - the Great Powers would accept it was just one of those things, an unfortunate death from natural causes. As it was, step by step the plotters made serious blunders.’
   ‘Among them?’
   ‘For example over the Pekingese dog Shadza.’
   ‘How was that a serious blunder?’ I asked, flabbergasted.
   ‘By contrast with the eunuch’s shattered tympanum you were called in late. Didn’t that strike you as odd? Otherwise, you’ll recall telling me, you might have saved its life at the first sign of distress.’
   I gazed blankly at my companion.
   ‘Holmes, are you telling me the dog’s death was connected to the orchard plot?’
   ‘Of course it was! It was a necessary part of it. What was the final question they needed answering before launching the crow?‘Would a plant entirely unknown in China, plucked by Yuán from the floor of an obscure forest in England, really do the job?’ Was the alkaloid deadly enough? Would itwork as they wished, namely irretrievably destroy the internal organs slowly, over a period of some days? They got their answer with Shadza. I know of no poison able to effect such damage on a dog which wouldn’t do the same to a human. If the wretched, betrayed dog lingered for three or four daysbefore dying painfully from the rupture of just about every internal organ, so would the Emperor.
   At first I paid no attention - the dog was dead, unfortunate creature - until you told me the E-D not only refused to let you perform an autopsy,she even said no to analyzing the extraneous fluids. Why? I wondered. Testing the fluids would require no butchery of the corpse. Then it struck me. She feared you might identify the toxin from your experience with such plants in England.’
   ‘Holmes!’ I exclaimed, ‘it’s absurd - preposterous - to believe the Empress Dowager would allow her favourite Pekingese to be poisoned, deliberately so.’ I added coldly, ‘I have met only one human being who deliberately and in cold blood poisoned a dog, and that man was you, a Scottish terrier if you recall.’
   I referred to an incident in the case of murder I titled‘A Study In Scarlet’ which took place in 1881 or early 1882, not long after I had first become acquainted with Holmes. A baffled Inspector Lestrade of Scotland Yard was at our Baker Street lodgings. Holmes sent me downstairs to our landlady to fetch an elderly Scottish terrier. My comrade was holding a small chip ointment box containing a couple of pills. Before our startled eyes Holmes fed the animal one of the pills, then, when that had no evident effect, he cut the other pill in two, dissolved it in water, added milk to make it palatable, and presented it to the terrier, whereupon the unfortunate creature gave a convulsive shiver in every limb, and lay as rigid and lifeless as if it had been struck by lightning.
   ‘My dear fellow,’ came the quick reply, ‘if you recall, we had a murder to solve - and besides, the terrier was old and sickly. I call it a mercy killing. This doesn’t seem to have been the case with Shadza. The food fed to Shadza was as closely regulated and tasted by eunuchs as the Empress Dowager’s herself.’
   ‘Again, Holmes, especially if what you deduce is correct, why did they call me in at all?’
   ‘To leave us with the impression accidents do happen. If a most favoured Royal pet can inadvertently ingest toxic plants, so can Royal humans.’* * *
   We were passing in sight of the Senkaku Islands when a steward came along the row of cabins with a news-sheet containing items of interest from across China. Even as we left the Empire’s territorial waters events from the mainland were still catching up with us. My attention was caught by a piece from the provincial city of Ningpo. It was headed ‘Palace Eunuch Found Dead’.
   ‘Word has arrived of another unexplained killing in the Forbidden City. The victim has been identified as a eunuch from Ningpo by the name of Kou Liancai in the employ of the Emperor. He was bound hand and foot and dumped in an open, fly-infested pauper’s pit. The eye-brows had been sliced off.Street dogs had commenced devouring him. Although the head has definitely been identified as Kou’s, the torso lying by (having being severed from its head) had the genitalia intact.’
   The news-sheet described how a heavy blow from a sword had removed the young man’s head. Deliberately severing the head from the trunk meant Kou could not serve the Emperor in the Hall of Hades as he had in this life. He may well have endured fearful torture before the coup de grace, another reason why the real torso may have been disposed of separately, death by slicing being solely within the Empress Dowager’s power to order. The penal regulations obliged the torturer to cut in a specified order; eye-brows first, then the shoulders, the breasts, the arms, the legs and then, finally, the heart. I reflected on the chilling contrast between the living, undamaged Kou and the wreckage of that same human-being now, a contrast I confronted many a time as an Army surgeon in the face of the scimitars of Ayub Khan’s Afghan warriors.
   Li must have realised how Kou had connived in Holmes’s ingenious trickery. The Aeroscope had been operated from high up in the pipa tree, the only hiding-place with a direct line of sight to the resting Emperor and the orchard path. No man of my or Holmes’s age would have had the dexterity to operate the camera while hanging on for dear life so high in the canopy.
   I put the newsletter down. Kou’s murder bore the hallmark of the Chief Eunuch’s vindictive handiwork on the orders of his mistress. Only the Empress Dowager could have specified ‘no coffin and no funeral’. All doubt in my mind about the death of the Empress Dowager’s favourite dog dissipated.
   Now the Celestial Emperor was entirely alone, an exposed and pitiable figure. My mind returned to a furtive conversation held when I checked the eardrum for the last time. Emboldened by the way my patient seemed driven to unload his cares upon me, a stranger from a distant land, I ventured,‘You told me Her Imperial Majesty expected you at any moment to die - to become a guest on high. What made you think that?’
   The Emperor reached over his shoulder, the index finger pointing downward.
   ‘The beizi she ordered me to wear on the journey to the Temple. The one she took away to destroy.’
   ‘What about it?’ I asked.
   ‘Do you recall the embroidery on the back?’
   ‘Of course!’ I replied.
   I had paid particular attention to the dragons’ snake-like appearance and the unusual four legs and five paws.
   ‘Dragons stitched with jewel-beetle wing-cases,’ I continued.
   ‘Do you recall how many dragons?’ the Emperor asked.
   ‘As a matter of fact, no,’ I conceded. ‘Quite a few.’
   ‘Nine,’ said the Emperor. ‘There were nine. When I stood on theShishaquita and donned the cape, I was sure it was to be my last journey on earth. I didn’t expect to reach the other side of the lake. I even sent Kou down into the bowels of the launch to seek out an assassin’s bomb. Finally we set off. And then, sure enough, the war-crow came.’
   I said,‘I don’t understand. Was it some sort of premonition?’
   The Emperor grimaced.
   ‘It was no premonition. It was the nine dragons. To a Chinese acquainted with the custom of the Ch’ing that number on a Dragon robe spells dethroning and death.’
   I said,‘But I thought nine was a symbol of Imperial power and strength? Only an Emperor is permitted to wear...’
   ‘Only an Emperor wears the ‘nine dragons robe’ but these robes never have nine dragons stitched on them, only eight. The Emperor is himself a dragon. That brings the number up to nine. The message was clear. Nine dragons plus me makes ten, no longer the Imperial nine. The person who sent me the beizi no longer considered me Emperor.’
   I stared at my patient utterly mystified. I visualised his rotating finger jutting from between the Empress Dowager and the General.
   ‘You implicated the General as the mastermind. Now you say you knew from the start Her Imperial Majesty was the driving force.’
   ‘Only the Divine Mother could have stitched nine dragons on the beizi. No-one else would have risked death by a thousand cuts for such treason. My first thoughts before entering the Temple of Longevity on the other side of the lake were to say nothing. I live in mortal and perpetual fear of her. I felt I could do nothing. I would carry on with my functions as usual despite the terrible pain in my ear.’
   Exasperated beyond measure, I forgot the required form of address to an Emperor.
   ‘My dear fellow,’ I exclaimed, why in heaven’s name didn’t you disclose all this to Holmes! After all, he...’
   ‘Because,’ the Emperor interrupted, ‘something very strange occurred in the Temple. When I started to pray the spirits of my ancestors began speaking to me, giving me instructions. The voices told me there was a way I could turn the situation around, rid myself of my principal oppressor, my aunt. I was to make no accusation against her. I was even to emphasise how generous her gesture had been in sending me the beizi. I was to point Sir Sherlock towards Yuán, lay the blame solely on him. Only the General’s control over the New Army keeps the Old Buddha on her throne.
   The ancestors said that if the General was arrested for treason, not even the Empress Dowager could save him from the most painful execution, including decapitation. With him removed from the scene, the spirits promised me within weeks she herself would be tumbled into her grave.’
   The Emperor shrugged ruefully.
   ‘From the moment Sir Sherlock realised the cape could never truly have been my aunt’s and was designed by her solely with the plot in mind, I knew my plan for pinning the blame on the General alone was never to be. Otherwise...’ he paused, seeking the right metaphor, ‘otherwise I could havekilled first one bird and then the second with the same stone and regained my throne.’
   Holmes’s and my life in the world of crime had been filled to the brim with ‘ifs’. If I had not turned back early that day at the Reichenbach Falls, Holmes’s life might not have been put in mortal danger at the hands of Professor Moriarty. Here in the Forbidden City, if Holmes had not brilliantlypinned the baleful plot together from clues other than the nine dragons on the beizi, we may not have needed to find a way to bargain for the life of the Guangxu Emperor. The Emperor would have been murdered.
   As I wrote of Holmes inThe Adventure Of The Yellow Face,‘Now and again, however, it chanced that even when he erred the truth was still discovered.’
   A poem by the famous Scotsman Robert Burns came to mind:‘The best-laid schemes o’ mice an’ men Gang aft agley...’ –that is, ‘The best laid schemes of mice and men Go often askew...’.
   If we hadn’t, as General put it, ‘grossly intruded’ in China’s internal affairs, the plot proposed by the Emperor’s ancestral spirits may have succeeded, eliminating both Yuán and the Empress Dowager. For the rest of my life I shall never know.
   Chapter XVI
   I Speculate about Mycroft Holmes’s True Rôle
   Some weeks later, back in London, I exchanged my Chinese silver coins at Cox’s and placed five guineas on The White Knight to win the Ascot Gold Cup. It came in first. My film presentation (minus the orchard scene) at the Royal Geographical Society was a gratifying success, applauded by an audience which included no less than the elderly Florence Nightingale, the rising Member of Parliament Winston Churchill, the notable fiction writer Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, and the guest of honour, His Majesty King Edward V11, who received the signed photograph of the Empress Dowager with genuine curiosity and made me spend time with him in the tea-room recounting my adventures.
   I put my name down on a waiting list for an Aerocar, the air-cooled 24 horsepower four-cylinder model at a cost of 2,800 American dollars, including goggles, gauntlet gloves and de rigeur breeches. Once‘in the saddle’ I planned to drive down to the Sussex countryside to demonstrate the Gabriel horn and gas headlights to Holmes. Having got whiff of my purchase he had already begun to goad me with references to Mr. Toad. He quoted in full from the newly-published children’s storyThe Wind In The Willows:
   ‘The Badger strode heavily into the room, and stood looking at the two animals with an expression full of seriousness. The Rat let his egg-spoon fall on the table-cloth, and sat open-mouthed.
   ‘The hour has come!’ said the Badger at last with great solemnity.
   ‘What hour?’ asked the Rat uneasily, glancing at the clock on the mantelpiece.
   ‘WHOSE hour, you should rather say,’ replied the Badger. ‘Why, Toad’s hour! The hour of Toad! I said I would take him in hand as soon as the winter was well over, and I’m going to take him in hand to-day!’
   ‘Toad’s hour, of course!’ cried the Mole delightedly. ‘Hooray! I remember now! WE’LL teach him to be a sensible Toad!’
   ‘This very morning,’ continued the Badger, taking an arm-chair, ‘as I learnt last night from a trustworthy source, another new and exceptionally powerful motor-car will arrive at Toad Hall on approval or return. At this very moment, perhaps, Toad is busy arraying himself in those singularly hideous habiliments so dear to him, which transform him from a (comparatively) good-looking Toad into an Object which throws any decent-minded animal that comes across it into a violent fit.’* * *
   The fine Edwardian summer passed. Winter set in. I received a letter addressed in Holmes’s familiar spidery script. I unsheathed the letter-opener, sliced it through the envelope, and began to read:
   ‘Nr. East Dean 16th November, 1908
   Dear Watson,
   I would welcome your company. If your Toad-mobile has not yet been delivered from America, come this Saturday on the morning express to Eastbourne. A brougham will be waiting for you.
   P.S. This morning I received a telephone call from Mycroft which may be of interest to you. Yesterday morning the Kuang-hsü Emperor was found dead. Cause not specified. Today the E-D died. There are signs the General is preparing to take over control of China.’
   I put the letter down. My last view of the Empress Dowager flooded back, that once-beautiful haunted face, the questing eyes, and the drawn mouth.* * *
   It was not until I was aboard a two-horse Hansom for Charing Cross railway station to visit Holmes that a quite incredible thought struck me. It came like a bolt from the blue. Mycroft Holmes! What part had he really played? Did he truly have our deadly enemy Colonel Sebastian Moran in mind when he offered to route all my communications through the Political& Secret Department at the India Office? Or was it simply so he could monitor my every move, read my back-up notes, study whichever strategy I might put to General Yuán for improvements in China’s New Army? There had been neither hide nor hair of the malevolent Colonel at any point along my long and dangerous route to Peking, and certainly not in the Forbidden City itself.
   The secretive Diogenes Club was a hot-bed of men in league with the China Association, retaining extreme loyalty to the British Empire. They would thereby have had access to all my private letters to Sherlock Holmes and the War Minister himself. The Club already acted like the Far Eastern Department of the Foreign Office yet antagonistic to it. Could Mycroft have placed himself - behind Sir Edward Grey’s back - at the service of this band of rich and aristocratic men planning the incorporation of China into an already over-stretched British Empire? There was no doubt secrecy was high in his mind - the slap on the wrist he administered over my careless pencil-marks on the Royal Geographical Society’s maps when planning my route to Kashgar still made my face flush.
   There was a highly suspicious clue. In the months I was abroad, a series of articles appeared inThe Morning Postnewspaper under the pseudonym G.E.‘China’ Morrison. ‘In the interests of British trade,’ one article concluded, ‘the sole remedy is for His Majesty’s Government to establish a protectorate over the whole of China south of the Great Wall’.
   ‘Morrison’ employed descriptions which eerily echoed information I had sent back. For instance, only one week after one of my own transmissions Morrison wrote in near-identical words inThe Morning Post,‘There is a growing seething unrest throughout China, especially in the southern cities of Amoy and Canton. It may already be impossible indefinitely to avert a serious outbreak. The New Army could well do with the presence of a mobile column of British troops at Weihaiwei in Shantung, or Hongkong, to give prompt support if a crisis arises’.
   A few days later he recommended the Empress Dowager should,‘by the threat of renewed force if necessary, be obliged to authorise the construction of a railway to connect British Burmah with the Upper Valley of the Yangtze’.
   I too had suggested much the same, though without employing the phrase‘by the threat of renewed force’.
   Evidently these Old China Hands would stop at nothing. I recalled a remark of Mycroft’s which I thought at the time merely philosophical. ‘Great Empires,’ he opined, ‘are like the universe. The Persian Empire, the Umayyad Caliphate, even the Holy Roman Empire faltered and collapsed the moment they ceased expansion.’
   Mycroft had had the bare-faced cheek to warn me of the Chinese inclination to circumlocution and deception! A change in Britain’s Government, the return to power of an expansionist-minded Prime Minister - Balfour replacing Campbell-Bannerman - and a take-over of China could easily ensue, helped immensely by the notes I compiled. My journey had commenced as an emissary, even an Ambassador of goodwill, for Sir Edward Grey.Mycroft had effectively turned me into a spy. He may well have contrived prior sight of my observations of China’s military capacity for that one reason - behind the back of his political masters, even that of his brother Sherlock, he and fellow members of the Diogenes Club intended to make England the non-pareil Power in the entire Extreme Orient, to gulp up vast swathes of China to add to our Indian Possessions. Their justification would be to thwart the ambitions of the Kaiser and the Berlin War Party.
   My reports covered the New Army’s operational and movement orders, strength returns and locations, which mountain passes remained open during the winter (and their fortifications), directions and height of river flows etc. I had been at least the equal and possibly the superior in value to the established line of secret intelligence agents - so-called archaeologists (that well-known cover for espionage) or Moslem traders and native servants on the payroll of the Indian government whose work it was to keep the ‘Political And Secret’ files in the India Office Library up to date. Think of the value to Germany, the ChinaHands would say, if she gained control over China’s rich and widespread resources, essential war-time needs - wheat and cotton. Hard coal. Tin. Tungsten. Mercury.
   I had provided a feasibility study of the weakness of the Hexi Corridor against an invasion by irregular forces. I described in detail physical obstacles, useful buildings and weak points in the Chinese defences such as the North Taku Fort, illustrating the plan and section, how the guns were covered with wooden sheds which concealed them and protected them from the weather.
   I reflected on my options. There were none. Mycroft Holmes, the great spider at the centre of a Whitehall web, had deceived me once before, in the case of‘the Sword of Osman’. Given Sherlock Holmes’s idolisation of his older brother there was nothing I could do. He would fix me with those steely eyes: ‘Evidence! Evidence! Evidence! Watson. You can’t make bricks without clay!’
   Bringing the matter to my old comrade’s attention might lead to a serious and perhaps long-lasting breach between us which I determined to avoid, at any cost.
   The Aerocar had arrived at the Liverpool Docks from America but would not clear customs for a further week. A familiar train took me to Eastbourne where a coach and pair awaited for the onward leg to Holmes’s bee-farm. The air had the sharp pinch of winter. I presented Holmes with a watercolour painting commissioned from Harris Bret. The artist had used my notes and his imagination to paint theMongolia as she cleared the Shanghai customs and began to thread her way through American three- and four-masted sailing vessels and fine steamers of the Messageries Maritimes. Gaily painted native boats darted about like dragon-flies, local steamers, sampans, gunboats painted white. The White Ensign floated in a mild breeze from a modern man-of-war lying off the Consulate door.
   Soon Holmes and I were seated in front of a blazing fire, like the old friends we were, reminiscing about our recent adventure.* * *
   Soon after the sun set over the ancient landscape Holmes pointed towards the kitchen.
   ‘Now, Watson, I insist you allow me to prepare a meal for us here. The lady that ‘does’ for me has consumed all the birds’ nests you gifted me on our return - or says she has - but I have consulted my Ledger of the Imperial Kitchens. I can commend a recipe for Swallow’s Nest soup. If it pleases the Imperial palate it may well please yours. There are a few dozen swallows’ nests in my barn. Their owners have vacated them. Alternatively,’ he added, seemingly unaware of my horrified expression, ‘I could try my hand at Cold Fish Maw Wrapped in Egg Skin. There’s some sort of fish in the ice-box. The hens have left a few eggs under the hedges. What do you think?’
   I had been obliged to try the soup in Peking, along with sea-slugs. Interwoven strands of salivary cement of white-nest swiftlets dissolve in water and give the liquid a gelatinous texture. I was not keen on a second go. Nor did the thought of Cold Fish Maw wrapped in Egg Skin whet the appetite.
   I fretted,‘I don’t recall you acquiring any culinary skills during our many years in Baker Street. While I appreciate Swallow’s Nest soup is highly nutritious - calcium and iron and potassium and magnesium - and as for the Cold Fish Maw, it sounds quite delicious - I wonder if...’ I pointed my nose southward, ‘for the sake of Auld Lang Syne we should patronise our friends at the Tiger Inn instead? I’m very keen on their deep fried Whitebait...’
   Arms linked, we went out into the courtyard. Releasing me Holmes clapped his hands. From out of the shade of tall bushes a brougham came rolling towards us. It was the carriage formerly owned by the Earl of Arundel.
   ‘Holmes!’ I exclaimed, chortling, ‘you anticipated my response all along!’
   Even as we clambered into the carriage an urgent communication from Scotland Yard was winging its way to Holmes’s farmstead.* * *
   We returned on foot by starlight, the celestial bodies illuminating the grassy hills once covered by self-sown native broadleaves felled and coppiced by short, swarthy, dark-haired, dark-eyed, long-skulled Ancient Britons, the island’s earliest inhabitants, long before Julius Caesar and his cohorts came to conquer and enslave them.
   The housekeeper was waiting for us, an open envelope clutched in her trembling hand.‘Our lives are in mortal danger!’ she cried, thrusting a page at us.
   It was from Inspector Gregson of the Yard.
   ‘Rumours abound in Limehouse,’ he wrote, ‘that anew and deadly master-criminal has you in his sights. The only description we have of him comes from the last words of one of his victims: ‘a person, tall, lean and feline, high-shouldered, with a brow like Shakespeare and a face like Satan...’.’
   The letter continued,‘Take great care even on your walks to and from The Tiger Inn. His favourite weapons include pythons and cobras ... fungi and bacilli ... and black spiders.’
   Were we soon to encounter this new‘Napoleon of Crime’ right here in England? Could this be connected to our ‘gross intrusion’ into the internal affairs of that near-mythical Middle Kingdom now seemingly so far away? In the dark I stared back over the grassland of the South Downs. Was he out there somewhere, even now?
   Holmes’s new Chinese soothsayer disguise would have to work wonders if the rumour proved to be true.Finis
   Epilogue
   The Ch’ing (or Qing) dynasty, also called the Empire of the Great Ch’ing, or the Manchu dynasty, was the last imperial dynasty of China, ruling from 1644 to its ignominious collapse in 1912. Ch’ing connotes the words ‘clean’ and ‘fresh’.
   The real Kuang-hsü Emperor’s death. On November 14, 1908, with his face turned towards the south, the traditional direction in which the sovereign must die, the young Emperor’s unhappy and unfortunate spirit left - or was more likely forced from - his body at the hour of the cock (early evening). Court physicians reported his final days were sleepless and tormented with stomach cramps. He could not urinate. His heart beat grew faster. His face burned purple. His tongue turned yellow. All symptoms which had no connection with any of his known previous illnesses. In a last but typically futile, defiant gesture, he refused to be dressed in the traditional vestments of death, the Robes of Longevity.
   In his last moments when he could no longer speak, while the Empress Dowager Cixi, his wife Lung Yu and his Lustrous Concubine stood by the bed, his index finger began to turn in a continuous circle which, in Chinese Calligraphy being‘Yuán’, ‘fingered’ the General he believed was a sworn enemy who would certainly have been executed if the Emperor had survived the Empress Dowager. As the bedside party watched, the circling finger faltered, then failed to move. The Emperor had embarked on the journey to the Nine Springs.
   The Empress Dowager of China. Cixi, also Tz’u-hsi, also called Xitaihou, or Xiaoqin Xianhuanghou, byname Empress Dowager. After ruling China for nearly fifty years, she suffered a severe stroke. She lingered a while and died in the afternoon of November 15 1908, shortly before her seventy-third birthday, one day after the Kuang-hsü Emperor.
   After lunch and a substantial helping of her favourite crab-apples with clotted cream, the Dowager Empress fainted and was carried to her apartments, dressed in her Robes of Longevity. It is widely believed she ordered the poisoning of her nephew, sensing her own death was imminent. At the end of her life, her personal jewellery vault held 3,000 ebony boxes of jewels.
   Cixi was a towering presence over the Chinese empire for almost half a century. Under her, the ancient country attained virtually all the attributes of a modern state: industries, railways, electricity, the telegraph and an army and navy with up-to-date weaponry. She abolished gruesome punishments like‘death by a thousand cuts’ and called for an end to foot-binding. On her death she was buried in splendour, covered in diamonds.
   Cixi’s legacy: after reading dozens of accounts written between the 1890s and the present, the summary I find most convincing is from Jung Chang’s biography ‘Empress Dowager Cixi, The Concubine Who Launched Modern China’, published in 2014. She writes‘Empress Dowager Cixi’s legacy was manifold and towering. Under her leadership the country began to acquire virtually all the attributes of a modern state: railways, electricity, telegraph, telephones, Western medicine, a modern-style army and navy, and modern ways of conducting foreign trade and diplomacy... She was a giant but not a saint. Being the absolute ruler of one-third of the world’s population and the product of medieval China, she was capable of immense ruthlessness... For all her faults she was no despot. In terms of ground-breaking achievements, political sincerity and personal courage, Empress Dowager Cixi set a standard that has barely been matched... one cannot but admire this amazing stateswoman, flawed though she was.’
   The American novelist Pearl S. Buck wrote in her novel‘Imperial Woman’,‘...the peasants and the small-town people revered her. Decades after she was dead I came upon villages in the inlands of China where the people thought she still lived and were frightened when they heard she was dead. “Who will care for us now?” they cried.’
   In 1928, revolutionaries dynamited her tomb and looted it while desecrating her body.
   General Yuán Shì-kai’s end. Four years after the Empress Dowager’s and the Kuang-hsü Emperor’s death, Yuán supported a self-serving grassroots Yuán-For-Emperor Association. A disreputable petition campaign made it ‘impossible’ for him to refuse the mandate of Heaven. In December 1915 Yuán accepted the Throne and three weeks later the new Dynasty commenced under the reign name Hung-hsien (or Hongxian).
   It was not long before celestial displeasure manifested itself. Faced with widespread opposition, the Hongxian Emperor’s prestige became irreparably damaged. Yunnan’s military governor, Cai E, rebelled, launching the National Protection War. 83 days later, towards the end of March 1916, Yuán abandoned the crown.
   In less than three months, obese and generally unwashed, Yuán died, aged only 56. The official cause was uremic poisoning. Yuán’s remains were moved to his home province and placed in a large mausoleum. In 1928, the tomb was looted by Feng Yuxiang’s Guominjun soldiers during the Northern Expedition.
   Perhaps only Mycroft Holmes understood from the start that Yuán Shì-kai was more than a man of panache and wit who handled foreigners with unusual skill. The General and Viceroy was clever, competent and followed through. At the same time he led a full private life, with a harem full of concubines and at least thirty legitimate offspring. He built a well-deserved reputation as a military commander and Army moderniser, expanding his Northern Army to six full Divisions by 1905.
   Yuán’s control of the New Army, China’s most powerful military force, made him a seminal figure; as a consequence he was courted by both the Ch’ing and the republicans. He was also a man of exceptional cunning and brutality - a Captain Ahab figure, and like Ahab he suffered terrible consequences from unbridled ambition.
   Glossary
   The snarling dragon on the front cover can be seen on the Nine-Dragon Wall at the Forbidden City, Peking. It was built in 1771 and is located in front of the Palace of Tranquil Longevity. Such walls were typically found in Imperial Chinese palaces and gardens as a way to block outsiders’ view.
   A friend, Mike Lacey, owns a beautiful Chinese bowl. He writes:‘The label says ‘The bowl is decorated with phoenixes (fung-hwang) and with paeonies upon a yellow ground. The mark on the bowl is Kwang-shiu. This bowl is reputed to have been removed from a royal palace in Pekin at the time of the Boxer Rising. In China the fung-hwang is the symbol of the Empress and the paeony is called kwa-wang, King of Flowers’.’
   Chinese people’s names. Modern Chinese names consist of a surname (known as xing) which comes first, followed by a personal name (míng). Therefore Yuán is the General’s family name, and Shì-kai his first name. Prior to the 20th century, educated Chinese also utilized a ‘courtesy name’ or ‘style name’ (zì) by which they were known among those outside of family and closest friends.
   The Forbidden City. The common English usage‘the Forbidden City’ is a translation of the Chinese name Zijin Cheng, literally ‘Purple Forbidden City’. By law all mortar used in building had to be dyed purple. Zi, meaning purple, refers to the North Star which in ancient China was called the Ziwei Star, and in traditional Chinese astrology was the heavenly abode of the Celestial Emperor.
   The City was a mirror image of the celestial realm of the Jade Emperor or Heavenly Ancestor and his court, said to rule over the universe. Through the use of numerology, divination and geomancy the city’s architecture aimed at harmonising the forces of Heaven, Man and Earth to guarantee dynastic stability and the prosperity of the realm.
   Mandarin. This is an exceptionally tricky language for Europeans, especially because it and many closely-related Chinese languages have contour tone systems (that is, not just relative pitch between syllables, but also pitch contours - like a little melody within the syllable). Only given Sherlock Holmes’s extraordinary ability to learn new languages is it conceivable he learnt a good deal with an initial 6 weeks’ formal instruction at the London School of Practical Chinese and continued instruction aboard the ship to India, plus the weeks tracking down Watson to that railway stop.
   The Mutoscope was an early motion picture device, patented in 1894. Like Thomas Edison’s Kinetoscope, it did not project on a screen and provided viewing to only one person at a time. The popular ‘What The Butler Saw’ was a short sequence portraying a woman partially undressing in her bedroom, as if some voyeuristic servant was watching through a keyhole.
   The Japanese Threat. General Yuán and the Empress Dowager were right to fear their predatory neighbour Japan. 30 years later, in 1937, Japan invaded China. Widely known as the Pacific War, infamous for its cruelties, the Second Sino-Japanese War was the largest Asian war in the 20th century. Between 10 and 25 million Chinese civilians and over 4 million Chinese and Japanese military personnel died from war-related violence and famine.
   Jingoism. Patriotism in the form of aggressive foreign policy - e.g. Britain expressing a pugnacious attitude toward the Russian‘bear’ in the 1870s. The term originated in Britain’s music-halls as a verse:We don’t want to fight but by Jingo if we doWe’ve got the ships, we’ve got the men, we’ve got the money tooWe’ve fought the Bear before, and while we’re Britons trueThe Russians shall not have Con-stan-ti-nople.
   Savoy opera. A style of comic operetta which developed in England in the late 19th century. W. S. Gilbert and Arthur Sullivan (‘The Mikado’ etc) were the original and most successful practitioners. The name derives from London’s Savoy Theatre which impresario Richard D’Oyly Carte built to house the Gilbert and Sullivan pieces.
   Maxim Gun. A terrifyingly effective recoil-operated machine gun invented by Sir Hiram Stevens Maxim in 1883.‘The weapon most associated with the British imperial conquest.’
   The‘sing-song’ trade. Often the word for prostitution though in China used for young women serving the customers at table during theatre performances.
   Dr. Watson’s Army pension. His‘wound pension’ from being invalided out of the army after the Battle of Maiwand was 11/6d (Eleven shillings and sixpence) per month. In modern terms the income value of that sum would be about GBP£350 or US$400, probably a subsistence amount at best.
   The Ch’ing hairstyle. The men wore a long pigtail and the front of the scalp was shaven. The style was originally enforced in 1645 on all citizens of the Empire as a test of loyalty to the conquering Dynasty by the Manchu Regent Dorgo. Tens of thousands of people who did resist were massacred. This started the hairstyle seen in motion pictures on the Ch’ing Empire. This style was humiliating to the conquered Han but helped the new Ch’ing Dynasty to identify resisters. It was advised, ‘To keep the hair, you lose the head; to keep your head, you cut the hair’.
   The Mandate of Heaven. Great natural disasters in the last 50 years of the Ch’ing dynasty contributed to weakening its authority. The pattern was interpreted as a sign the Dynasty had lost the Mandate of Heaven. One of the world’s biggest natural disasters in history occurred in 1887 when the Yellow River flooded. It is thought that between 1 to 2 million people died. The River flooded again in 1898. The Yangtze River flooded in 1911, and about 100,000 died. In 1879 a magnitude 8 Gansu Earthquake killed about 22,000 people. The Northern Chinese Famine of 1876–1879 killed about 10% of the population (equal to about 10 million people) of several northern provinces. Despite Peking being sited in Chihli, the Capital Province, the little aid provided by the Ch’ing government made the people even more discontented with the Dynasty.
   The Yellow Peril (also Yellow Terror and Yellow Spectre). In 1895, after a dream in which he saw the Buddha riding a dragon and threatening to invade Europe, Germany’s Kaiser Wilhelm II invented the phrase Yellow Peril in an effort to interest the other European empires in the perils they faced in their invasions of China.
   Full-blown paranoia was whipped up by the London Daily Express newspaper. Articles screamed in large headlines:‘Yellow Peril in London’, ‘Vast Syndicate of Vice with its Criminal Master’, and ‘A Chinese syndicate, backed by millions of money and powerful, if mysterious, influences, is at work in the East End of London.’
   Dr. Fu-Manchu. With the fear of the Yellow Peril, a new fictional supervillain appeared. By 1911 a novelist using the pseudonym Sax Rohmer cashed in with‘The Mystery of Dr. Fu-Manchu’. Fu-Manchu disdains guns or explosives, preferring dacoits, thuggees, and members of other secret societies as his agents armed with knives, or using “pythons and cobras ... fungi and my tiny allies, the bacilli ... my black spiders” and other peculiar animalsor natural chemical weapons.
   Old China Hands. At some point historians may return to a question that has never been fully examined - the riddle of why China never became another British India, one more jigsaw piece in Britain’s already-immense Empire. The answer may lie in the already gigantic extent of Empire in 1900 and because the great Trading Houses of Jardine, Matheson& Company and the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank and the Old China Hands never convinced British Governments or the people of Britain that the national importance of suzerainty over China was a crucial aim, not just for straight-forward commercial advantage and avarice.
   If British Prime Ministers of the period - the Marquess of Salisbury and Arthur Balfour - had determined a take-over of China, there rises one of the great‘Ifs’ of history - would the Communist Revolution ever have taken place?
   ‘The Great Game’: the phrase describing the strategic rivalry and conflict between London and St. Petersburg for supremacy in Central Asia. The term is usually attributed to Captain Arthur Conolly (1807–1842), an intelligence officer of the British East India Company’s 6th Bengal Light Cavalry. It was introduced to a wider public by Rudyard Kipling in ‘Kim’ which first appeared in serial form in 1900.
   The Russian Empire’s expansion into Central Asia threatened to over-run the ‘jewel in the crown’ of the British Empire - India. Surprising to recall now, by the last quarter of the nineteenth century it was a common assumption in Europe that the next great war - the ‘inevitable war’ - was going to be the final showdown between Britain and Russia. Relations between the two powers continued to be strained until they allied against the Central Powers in World War I.
   Mexican Army Cipher Wheel. The device credited to Holmes was in real life invented by the Mexican Army and remained in use up to the end of World War One.
   Cryptography. The earliest known text containing components of cryptography was found on the tomb of an Egyptian nobleman. Around 1900 BCE Khnumhotep’s scribe drew his master’s life in his tomb, using a number of unusual symbols to obscure the meaning of the inscriptions. This method of encryption is an example of a substitution cipher, any system which substitutes one symbol or character for another, in Khnumhotep’s case probably used topreserve the sacred nature of religious rituals from the common people.
   George Macartney. The real-life Macartney was the son of a Scottish father and Chinese mother. British Agent, then Consul-General in Kashgar for 28 years - his entire career as a diplomat - officially he lived in this backwater to look after the needs of a small British Indian community, mainly traders and money-lenders.
   In reality he had a quite incredibly important task, intelligence-gathering, to keep watch on Tsarist machinations on the front lines of the two rival Empires and safeguard British India from Russian predation. He was knighted in 1913. In 1931 his wife Lady Catherine Macartney published‘An English Lady In Chinese Turkestan’, a good read.
   The Silk Roads. Today’s China for both commercial and geopolitical reasons is opening up the ancient Silk Roads once more. An article titled ‘The Silk Roads Rise Again’ appeared in the New Statesman 23-29 October 2015 by Peter Frankopan, including some interesting background:‘The term ‘Silk Roads’, or Seidenstraße, was coined in 1877 by the German geographer Ferdinand von Richthofen. It denoted the mesh of cities, oases and routes criss-crossing Asia, linking the Pacific with the Mediterranean, and the Red Sea, Persian Gulf and Indian Ocean with Russia, Scandinavia and Europe. Along these networks the world’s great religions rose and spread.’
   Crows and the Chinese. In Chinese mythology, the world originally had 10 suns either spiritually embodied as 10 crows and/or carried by 10 crows; when all 10 decided to rise at once, the effect was devastating to crops, so the gods sent their greatest archer Houyi to shoot down nine crows and spare only one.
   Crows are almost universally maligned and for no good reason. They are now believed to be as intelligent as a seven-year-old human, the only non-primate species known to make tools such as prodding sticks and hooks which they use to pick out grubs from awkward places. A recent study showed crows worked out how to obtain floating food rewards by dropping heavy objects into water-filled tubes. They must have watched Archimedes of Syracuse at work.
   Although the Empress-Dowager may not have carried out her threat to eliminate the crow from her Empire, fifty years later Mao Zedong ordered the Great Sparrow Campaign known officially as the Four Pests Campaign. The four pests to be eliminated were rats, flies, mosquitoes, and a bird, the sparrow. The masses of China were mobilized. Citizens took to banging pots and pans or beating drums to scare the birds from landing, forcing them to fly until they fell from the sky in exhaustion. Sparrow nests were torn down, eggs were broken, and nestlings killed. Other birds were also shot down from the sky, resulting in the near-extinction of birds in China.
   As can happen when humankind engages in a great assault on Nature, things didn’t work out well. By April 1960, Chinese leaders realized sparrows eat a large amount of insects, as well as grains. Instead of increasing rice yields, crops were substantially lower. Mao ordered the end of the campaign against sparrows, replacing them with a different enemy, bed bugs, in the ongoing campaign against the Four Pests. It was too late. With no sparrows to eat them, locust populations ballooned, swarming the country and compounding the ecological problems already caused by the Great Leap Forward, including widespread deforestation and misuse of poisons and pesticides.
   in articulo mortis: at the point of death. Used naturally by Dr. Watson from his medical experience.
   Basenji. Breed of hunting dog from stock originating in central Africa. The Basenji produces an unusual yodel-like sound due to the shape of its larynx. This trait gives the Basenji the nickname‘soundless dog’.
   Life-preserver. Chiefly British usage. A hand-weapon such as a cosh or blackjack.
   100 Days of Reform. In 1898, the young Kuang-hsü Emperor suddenly initiated an all-out attempt at renovating the Chinese state and social system. He issued more than 40 edicts in quick succession which would have transformed every aspect of Chinese society. The old civil service examination system based on the Chinese Classics was ordered abolished. A new system of national schools and colleges was established. Western industry, medicine, science, commerce, and patent systems were promoted and adopted. Government administration was revamped. The law code was changed, the military was reformed, and corruption attacked. The attack on corruption, the army, and the traditional educational system threatened long-entrenched and privileged classes.
   As a result the attempted reforms were short-lived. Conservative forces forcefully rallied behind the Empress Dowager. With the army on her side, she carried out a successful coup d’état and for several years kept the Emperor imprisoned in his lake palace.
   Royal Army Medical Corps. As Watson would have known, it was in 1898 that a single Army Medical Corps was created. In the Boer wars and WW1 and WW2, the Corps dealt with 14 million casualties, and was awarded many medals, including 14 Victoria Crosses (two with Bars).
   Field Service Pocket Book. Watson’s references are based on a later edition lent to me by Major General John Moore-Bick. The 1914 edition is especially interesting because it summarises the state of the British Army at the outbreak of the Great War. On Watson’s long journey to Kashgar and Peking he would have read a contemporary copy, on war establishments, system of command in the field, and summaries covering ciphers, construction of trenches, setting up firing positions, even the construction of emergency railway stations.
   Hippocratic Oath. Historically taken by physicians, one of the most widely known of Greek medical texts. In its original form, it required a new physician to swear, by a number of healing gods, to uphold specific ethical standards.
   Aeroscope film camera. Patented in England in 1910 by the Polish inventor Kazimierz Prószyński, the Aeroscope was the first successful hand-held operated film camera. It was powered by compressed air pumped into the camera with a simple hand pump, similar to the one used for bicycle tyres. This made it possible to film hand-held in most difficult circumstances, notably from early airplanes.
   The camera came into its own on the battlefield during the Great War. Several cameramen died filming from the front lines and because of this the innocent Aeroscope got the nickname‘camera of death’.
   British Empire. Where I speak of the time the British Empire comes to its end was from a piece in the New Statesman, 18 March 2016, by Jeremy Seabrook, titled‘The World Of Yesterday’.
   Boxers. The violent anti-foreign, anti-Christian uprising in China towards the end of the Ch’ing dynasty between 1899 and 1901. Although women were not allowed to join the Boxer units, they formed their own groups, the Red Lanterns. Popular local lore reported that the women were able to fly, walk on water, set Christians’ homes on fire, and stop foreign guns, powers which even the Boxer men themselves did not claim.
   North China Daily News. Founded as the weekly North-China Herald in 1850. A daily edition commenced publication in 1864 as the North China Daily News. The newspaper was an influential force in Shanghai and throughout China until 1951.
   Seismographs. In 132 AD, Zhang Heng, a scientist in the Eastern Han Dynasty, invented the seismograph to detect the cardinal direction of earthquakes that struck hundreds of miles away - the earliest instrument in the world for forecasting and reporting the movement of an earthquake. Zhang’s seismoscope was a giant bronze vessel, resembling a samovar almost 6 feet in diameter.
   Sigil. An inscribed or painted symbol or occult sign considered to have magical power. The‘g’ is pronounced like a ‘j’. In Chinese feng shui, the most famous sigil is the Sigil of Zuan Kong which holds within it the movement of the Flying Stars.
   Mumbo Jumbo (sometimes mumbo-jumbo). English term for confusing or meaningless language. Nowadays often used to express humorous criticism of middle-management and civil-service doublespeak. It may also refer to practices based on superstition, rituals intended to cause confusion, or languages the speaker does not understand.
   Jordan. A chamber pot. Popular slang for a chamber-pot used to urinate in at night without having to resort to a trip to the outside toilet (or worse). Origin obscure but possibly from the similarity of urine flasks to the little containers of sacred Jordan water brought back from the Holy Land by mediaeval pilgrims.
   China gunboats. Shallow-draught gunboats designed to patrol rivers.
   Il fautêtre le plus malin. One must be the more cunning.
   Orbis alius. In Celtic mythology, the Otherworld is the realm of the dead and the home of the deities and other powerful spirits.
   Amen.‘So be it’. Originally from Hebrew ‘āmēn’: truth.
   Dyed-in-the-wool. Thoroughgoing. Unchanging in a particular belief or opinion.
   Committee of Imperial Defence. Watson reported to this Committee. Although there’s evidence of British intelligence organisations collecting foreign intelligence and intercepting messages as far back as the 15th Century, Britain’s modern history of espionage really began in 1909.
   With the growth of Germany’s naval and military strength and the Kaiser’s expanding colonisation, particularly in Africa and the Pacific, the British government was increasingly concerned about the threat to its own Empire. In July 1909 they established a Secret Service Bureau, split into Home and Foreign Sections.
   Criminalistics. When Holmes coined the word‘criminalistics’ circa 1904 he was well ahead of his time. It only came into widespread use around 1945 to describe the science dealing with the detection of crime and the apprehension of criminals.
   Railway glasses. Their use by train passengers stemmed from the fact that the early railway carriages were open to the sky. By the mid Victorian period this was no longer the case, but railway spectacles continued to be used by rail workers, either for travelling on the locomotive or when working on the track. Even then the Edwardian period would be a bit late though Holmes might have discovered an old pair in a drawer somewhere.
   Suffragists. Members or supporters of the National Union of Women’s Suffrage Societies campaigning for women’s right to vote. Different from the suffragettes, they eschewed violence in favour of advocacy. For example, in February 1907 Millicent Fawcett co-led what became known as the Mud March. Over 3,000 women marched in a public procession through the muddy streets of London, peacefully demonstrating their support for women’s suffrage.
   Dawn Redwood. Taxodiaceae (Redwood family). Watson was well aware of the search for exotic plants for the Edwardian garden. One of the most exciting discoveries in the plant world in the mid-20th Century was the deciduous conifer, the Dawn Redwood, Metasequoia glyptostroboides, in China. The trees were hitherto only known from fossil evidence dating back 100 million years, and thought to have been extinct for 5 million years.
   Taels. A unit of weight and by extension a currency. In general the silver tael weighed around 40 grams. General Yuán paid Watson a fee of nine thousand taels. At the time this would have equalled around 900 British pounds. In today’s purchasing power that would be about £100,000 British pounds or roughly US$135,000. Plenty to bet with at the Gatwick Races.
   Orbate. Every Emperor of China feared dying‘orbate’ - i.e. childless, without heir or descendant to perform the vital ceremonies at the deceased ruler’s shrine.
   Bastinado. A beating. The instrument employed was a thick cane, cloven in two, and several feet long, made of bamboo, a hard, strong, and heavy wood. The lower part is as broad as a hand, the upper smooth and small for ease of handling.
   Limehouse is a once-poverty-stricken district in east London located 3.9 miles (6.3 km) east of Charing Cross. A large Chinese community developed there, established by the crews of merchantmen in the opium and tea trades, particularly Han Chinese. The area achieved notoriety for opium dens in the late 19th century, often featured in pulp fiction works by such authors as Sax Rohmer.
   Meurtresà l’anglaise. Murders English-style. Watson is being witty. Although the terrible late-Victorian Jack the Ripper murders have never been solved (nor, surprisingly, investigated by Sherlock Holmes), Victorian Britain was no more inclined to shooting, stabbing, throttling, poisoning and serial killers than any other society.
   ‘Nine Springs.’ Holmes had learnt about Chinese beliefs well. ‘Nine Springs’ (also ‘Yellow Springs’) is the Chinese poetical term for the abode of the dead beneath the earth.
   Shishaquita. The name of the Emperor’s steam-launch came from one built in 1906 at my favourite old (now defunct) boat-building yards Abdela& Mitchell in Gloucestershire where some speculate the famous‘African Queen’ of the Hollywood movie was constructed around 1912. For cognoscenti of such bits of Britain’s history I gaveShishaquitathe power source used in real life in the Abdela& Mitchell boat Angela, namely a high pressure single cylinder engine.
   English Idioms
   An idiom is ... a group of words established in general usage with a meaning you can’t take straight from the words themselves, for example, English speakers say someone is ‘pulling my leg’. To pull someone’s leg means to tease them by telling them something untrue.
   Or,‘Let sleeping dogs lie’ means ‘stay quiet, avoid restarting a conflict’.
   Because it arises from a society over perhaps centuries an idiom may be incomprehensible in straight translation. As in all languages, there are some thousands of idioms in English. Here are ones used inSherlock Holmes And The Nine-Dragon Sigil:
   ‘What’s it got to do with the price of tea in China?’ Expression denoting an irrelevance ornon sequitur in the current discussion.
   ‘When the chips are down’. At the final, critical moment; when things really get difficult, when no more choices can be made. This idiom may have derived from the card-game poker, and may not have come into widespread use until the 1930s.
   To strike paydirt. In California’s gold rush of 1849, to strike paydirt was to dig until you hit dirt that would pay - soil with gold in it. Idiomatically, to find something valuable, e.g. a scholar who makes a valuable discovery may say s/he has struck pay dirt.
   To do a bunk (informal). Make a hurried or furtive departure or escape.
   At daggers drawn. If two people (two countries, etc.) are at daggers drawn, they are in a state of extreme unfriendliness and do not trust each other.
   ‘Brevity is the soul of wit’. Shakespeare in ‘Hamlet’ wittily has the garrulous Lord Polonius state: ‘Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit, And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes, I will be brief...’ yet he usually went on and on (and on).
   The Quick and the Dead. Archaic and biblical -‘quick’ means ‘alive’ or ‘living’, not ‘speedy’.
   Take the bull by the horns. To confront a problem head-on and deal with it openly. Based on the idea that holding a bull by its horns is both a brave and direct action.
   Horns of a dilemma. Unable to decide between two things because either could bring bad results.
   Be caught with your pants/trousers down. To be discovered doing something that you did not want other people to know about.
   The More Obscure Words and Phrases
   Mantle (from mantellum, the Latin term for a cloak). Type of loose garment usually worn over indoor clothing to serve the same purpose as an overcoat. Technically, the term describes a long, loose cape-like cloak worn from the 12th to the 16th century by both sexes, although by the 19th century it was used to describe any loose-fitting, shaped outer garment similar to a cape. For example, the dolman, a 19th-century cape-like woman’s garment with partial sleeves is often described as a mantle.
   Anon. In a little while. Soon.
   Persnickety. Giving a lot of attention to minor or unimportant details.
   “Et tu, Brute?” Latin phrase meaning“You too, Brutus?”, purportedly the last words of the Roman dictator Julius Caesar to his friend Marcus Brutus at the moment of Caesar’s assassination. The quotation is widely used in English-speaking world to signify an unexpected betrayal by a person, especially a friend.
   In train. A process or event happening or starting to happen.
   Peradventure: uncertainty or doubt as to whether something is the case.
   Background Reading
   ‘The Last Empress, The She-Dragon of China’, by Keith Laidler. John Wiley& Sons. 2003. A very engaging run through a most extraordinary period in China’s long history.
   ‘From Yunnan-Fu to Peking Along The Tibetan And Mongolian Borders’, by H. Gordon Thompson. The Geographic Journal. January 1926.
   ‘Dragon Lady, The Life And Legend of the Last Empress of China’, by Sterling Seagrave. Vintage Books 1992.
   ‘The Mystery of 31 New Inn’, by R. Austin Freeman. A lesser-known British detective-story ‘rival’ to Arthur Conan Doyle. Many of R.A.F’s Dr. Thorndyke stories employ genuine, if arcane, points of scientific knowledge, from tropical medicine, metallurgy and toxicology.
   ‘With The Empress Dowager of China’, by Katherine A. Carl. First published 1906. An American paintress’s eye on the wonders of the Imperial Court in ‘see-no-evil’ vein but charming and filled with meticulous observations such as the Imperial legend of the Double Dragon and the Flaming Pearl.
   ‘The Much Maligned Empress Dowager Tz’u-hsi’. Modern Asian Studies 13:2 (1979), 177-196.
   Comparative study of territoriality and habitat use in syntopic Jungle Crow (Corvus macrorhynchos) and Carrion Crow (C. corone). Hajime Matsubara. Also seehttps://corvidresearch.wordpress.com/2015/05/01/corvid-of-the-month-the-jungle-crow/
   ‘Conjuring Asia. Magic, Orientalism And The Making Of The Modern World.’ Chris Goto-Jones. Cambridge University Press 2016. Excellent chapter on Chinese magic.
   Professor Sue Fawn Chung, University of Nevada. Dissertation quoted in‘The Image of the Empress Dowager Tz’u-hsi’, in ‘Reform in Nineteenth Century China’, eds. Paul Cohen and John Schrecker, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1976, and ‘The Much Maligned Empress Dowager Tz’u-hsi’, Modern Asian Studies 13:2 (1979).
   ‘The Diaries Of Sir Ernest Satow, British Envoy In Peking (1904-1906)’. Volume Two.
   ‘An English Lady In Chinese Turkestan’, by Lady Catherine Macartney. First published by Ernest Benn, 1931.
   ‘The Land Of The Blue Gown’, by Alicia E. Neva Little. First published 1902. Travels of a doughty anti-foot-binding campaigner, a mistress of description.
   ‘The Last Of The Empresses’, by Daniele Varè. John Murray, 1936. Subtitled ‘and the passing from the Old China to the New’.
   ‘Foreign Devils On The Silk Road’, by Peter Hopkirk. Oxford University Press, 1984.
   ‘Crime’s Strangest Cases’, by Peter Seddon. Anova Books Company 2012.
   ‘Yuán Shih-k’ai’, by Jerome Ch’en. Stanford University Press 1961.
   ‘Chinese Shakespeares’, by Alexander C. Y. Huang. A history of Shakespeare in China. Columbia University Press New York.
   ‘To-Morrow In The East’, by Douglas Story. George Bell& Sons, 1907 (reproduced by Bibliolife).
   ‘The Great Game’, by Peter Hopkirk. Oxford University Press, 1991.
   ‘The Forbidden City’, by Geremie R. Barme. Profile Books, 2008.
   ‘Treason By The Book’, by Jonathan Spence. Penguin Books, 2006.
   ‘Two Years In The Forbidden City’, by Princess Der Ling.
   ‘Hermit Of Peking’, by Hugh Trevor-Roper. Alfred A. Knoff, inc. 1977. An entertaining account of the life of a quite extraordinary rapscallion sinologist, Sir Edmund Backhouse.
   ‘The Crime Laboratory’, by Paul L. Kirk and Lowell W. Bradford. Charles C. Thomas. 2nd printing 1972.
   ‘The Real Sherlock Holmes’, by Joe Riggs. Subtitled, ‘The mysterious methods and curious history of a true mental specialist’. Andrews UK, revised 2012.
   ‘The Scientific Sherlock Holmes: Cracking the Case with Science and Forensics’. James O’Brien. Oxford University Press, 2013. Holmes as a pioneer of forensics.
   ‘Poisonous Plants in Great Britain’, by Frederick Gillam. Wooden Books Ltd. 2008. Neat little book, not to be used for unusual kitchen recipes.
   ‘Bird Sense, What It’s Like To Be A Bird’, by Professor Tim Birkhead. Bloomsbury, 2012.
   ‘Sherlock Holmes: Father of Scientific Crime and Detection’, by Stanton O. Berg. Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology Vol. 61 Issue 3. 1970.
   ‘Toxicology in the Sherlockian Canon’, paper delivered in 2000 by Steven Seifert, Arizona Poison and Drug Information Center, Tucson, Arizona.
   ‘A Mosaic Of The Hundred Days’, by Luke S. K. Kwong. Council On East Asian Studies, Harvard. 1984.
   ‘The Opium War’, by Julia Lovell. Picador 2011. Includes a truly astonishing account of the causes of the first Opium War.
   ‘Shakespeare and Democracy’, by Gabriel Chanan, ‘The Self-Renewing Politics of a Global Playwright. Troubador 2015. Gabriel Chanan argues that even though the Bard could know nothing of modern democracy, he played a fundamental role in building the culture that underlies it.
   ‘My Life In Magic’, Howard Thurston. 1929.
   ‘Conjuring Asia. Magic Orientalism and the Making of the Modern World.’ Chris Goto-Jones. Cambridge University Press. 2016.
   ‘Changing Clothes in China’, by Antonia Finnane. 2007. Excellent reference for details on how elite men’s fashion changed at the start of the 20th Century.
   ‘My Dear Holmes, a Study In Sherlock’, by Gavin Brend. George Allen& Unwin, 1951.
   Acknowledgements
   My Thanks To...
   my Publisher Steve Emecz of MX Publishing who has done more to keep the spirit of Sherlock Holmes alive and kicking than anyone else in the world.
   Mike’s Reviews: some reviewers grasp immediately how I like to take my readers away to those now distant days when the sun shone warmly over England and never set on her vast Empire, when good King Edward VII,‘the Peacemaker’, was seated on the throne. Goodreads’ American reviewer ‘Mike’ isone of those. He described my Sherlock Holmes And The Mystery of Einstein’s Daughteras follows:‘Excitingly and surprisingly, yes, a true Sherlock does live today, but he’s not on TV but instead in the pages of this book. Tim Symonds has taken the detective and Dr. Watson and brought them only into the 1900s instead of the 21st Century, giving them a most-intriguing mystery to solve: the story of Albert Einstein’s secret daughter...Yet getting the details all just-so is only one key to writing quality historical fiction: the other part of the game is making the narrative engaging, and Symonds passes that test with flying colors, too.
   Though a short book, the presence of Sherlock, Watson, Einstein and other larger-than-life persons makes it feel all the more real and tangible. As we follow Sherlock and Watson to Serbia, a feeling of the exotic - complete with more great historical details that paint a vivid picture of the context of the detective’s work, which is an aspect all the more welcome as it’s one often missing from the typical whodunit - takes hold and draws us further in. Yet more than even the current-day masters, this book reads like the late Victorian/Edwardian novels did, with grand dialog and gentlemanly conduct, no matter how many sinister threats may lurk around every corner. Highly recommended. 5 of 5 stars***’
   Thank you, Mike, where-ever you live!
   And also a big thank-you to an Australian.Sherlock Holmes and the Case of the Bulgarian Codex was reviewed in J. JURIS by Dr Xanthé Mallett, University of New England, Australia: ‘...the trusty duo set off for Bulgaria, travelling on the Orient Express through beautifully described landscapes. As one would expect, the story is not as simple as it at first appears, and what follows is a tale of murder, greed, and vampires. There are the requisite unexpected twists and turns. A tale worthy of Holmes any day.’
   Andrea S. Goldman, Associate Professor and China specialist at the UCLA Department of History. Right from the early research stage Professor Goldman was very very helpful with a background reading list. I found her own book‘Opera and the City: The Politics of Culture in Beijing, 1770-1900’ especially valuable. I took full account of her suggestions, including on Wang Feng: ‘Re. his title, I would make it Investigating Censor (jiancha yushi, one of a small number of officials in the Censorate or Duchayuan). He would be empowered to gather complaints from the people, review the handling of prisoners, and impeach officials for misconduct.’
   Min-Jung Kim, Curator, Museum of Applied Arts& Sciences, Sydney, Australia, who offered the ingenious suggestion which I used in the plot (and which Holmes completely failed to spot):‘The Emperor’s dragon robe is known as ‘nine dragons robe’. However, only eight dragons were embroidered on the actual garment. The reason was the emperor was a dragon himself, so when he wore the robe it completed the number nine.’
   Fatefully she added,‘It would be interesting to make a plot where the garment ordered by the Empress Dowager had nine dragons which means the Emperor was no longer regarded an Emperor (or dragon)!’
   Hajime Matsubara. Ornithologist connected with the Japanese Bird Research Association. It was Hajime Matsubara who told me how well the crow’s kinetic vision is developed. To identify particular clothing during flight would be very easy, including such ornamentation as a patch of embroidery. And (as Sherlock Holmes reports in the story) he made a further point: a crow can be trained to identify a particular object by UV signal - ‘for example someone wearing jewel-beetle ornamentation which reflects UV strongly’.
   Innes Cuthill, School of Biological Sciences, Bristol, re. Corvid eyesight and UV radiation:‘Yes, a corvid would see UV reflection from a beetle. Iridescent colours, such as in a jewel beetle, often reflect strongly in several different wavebands, and in the mathematically predictable way.’
   From Dr Nicholas Roberts, School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol:‘I agree with Innes. Corvids do have UV vision. The shortest wavelength sensitivity in birds is mediated by either UV or Violet-sensitive (VS) photoreceptors and Corvids have VS cells. This is not true UV sensitivity like passerines for example, but their sensitivity still extends down to 350-360nm into the UV.’
   Kevin J. McGowan, Project Manager, Distance Learning in Bird Biology, Cornell Lab of Ornithology. Kevin writes,‘The crow species that would be in Peking would be the Large-billed Crow, Corvus macrorhynchos. A crow could be trained to do what you describe, but it would have to be hand-raised from a small chick. Wild crows could be trained to recognize a particular set of clothing but they wouldn’t try to land on someone’s shoulder. That would take a tame, hand-raised and trained individual.’
   Catherine Cooke, Senior Business Systems Analyst, Information Services, Marylebone Library (and Sherlock Holmes specialist) for her wonderful response to any conceivable question, for example, when I needed to know which deadly diseases Watson may come across at his make-shift surgery in Peking, Catherine replied,‘The British Medical Journal is a good a place to start. We may still have a subscription at work or I have moles in a couple of medical libraries. I’ll have a dig around and get back to you.’
   Richard Sawden, who conducts visitor courses on mushrooms in England’s New Forest, for suggesting locations where deadly plants such as the Hemlock Water Dropwort, also called ‘dead man’s fingers’, can be spotted but definitely not eaten.
   Simon Shelly, International Organisations Department, Foreign and Commonwealth Office, London, who wrote:‘If you would like to come by to look at and discuss parts of the building with one of our historic guides, you could ask...me! I am a member of our tour guide cadre, and would be happy to go round with you to help you plug any factual and historic gaps in your knowledge.’ And, on Dr. Watson’s behalf, I took the tour of this remarkable building.
   Peter Starley, Black Powder retailer and Member of the Gun Trade Association, for professional advice on how the assassins would have used black powder for their fiendishly clever plot.‘Only a small amount of powder would be needed. Placed within a couple of inches of the ear this should do the job. The ear is in effect a funnel. The damage to the drum would be caused by the explosive pressure blasting into the ear.’
   V&A Theatre& Performance Enquiry Service. For their valued assistance in determining when and where Shakespeare’s Hamlet was performed in England circa 1906, for example on the Pavilion Pier, Brighton.
   The London Library. One of the most famous and largest of Britain’s libraries. Extremely helpful on my research into the Ch’ing Dynasty. The building was among the first steel-framed buildings in London. The present eclectic facade, the Main Hall, Reading Room and the grille-floored bookstacks are worth visiting for the atmosphere alone.
   Jamie Russell MCIM. John Bell& Croyden. Preparing Dr. Watson for his epic journey to Kashgar and Peking.‘We no doubt would have been able to sell Dr. Watson a boiling point thermometer and we would have sold ready packed sterilized needle and syringe packs ready for administration. We used to sell leeches to help heal wounds during far travels and war time.’
   Juyan Webster of the Chinese Tea Company who wrote:‘Cixi loved tea, and she would drink tea according to different seasons, Dragon well green tea for spring, Jasmine Green tea for the summer and Puer tea for winter. She also would use different teawares to match with teas and season.’
   Jim Webster for providing insights into‘circumstantial evidence’ versus ‘direct evidence’ in criminal cases. I met Jim and his wife-to-be Karen when we were all students in Göttingen and at UCLA. Jim has spent his life as an attorney-at-law fighting for the rights of the under-dog and would have made a fine mentor to the censorWang.
   Craig Brough, Information Services Librarian, Public Programmes Directorate, Royal Botanic Gardens. Fruit trees in China etc. Ever helpful on the most abstruse enquiry on little-known flora.
   Janice Phillips, Chief Executive& HR Administrator Office, British Association of Optometrists, responding immediately to my query on Victorian eye-glasses.
   Neil Handley MA, AMA+, FRSA, curator of the British Optical Association Museum, for his very useful description of the railway glasses Holmes needed to disguise his non-Chinese grey eyes. The museum is based at the College of Optometrists. Visitors and researchers welcome.
   Dr. Annie Hodgson, York University Chemistry department, who said,‘This has to be one of the most intriguing emails I have ever had. As a great fan of Sherlock Holmes (I am currently reading my way through all the original stories) I am happy to see if I can help you.’ - and came up trumps (chemically speaking) whenever I needed advice on poisons!
   Howard White. My old friend and‘listening board’ of St. Leonard’s On Sea. He scouted the hard-to-find Old Roar Falls in the hills near Hastings which I used in my short story ‘A Most Diabolical Plot’ in the MX Book of New Sherlock Holmes Stories, part 111 (Editor David Marcum), published in 2015.
   Dr. Michael Pritchard FRPS. Director-General, Royal Photographic Society. Author of‘A History of Photography In 50 Cameras’. For telling me about the Aeroscope. I also asked about disguised cameras and received the following information: ‘There were a lot of disguised cameras available in 1906 - cameras hidden in bags, hats, canes, watches, books, etc. Some were more novelties than anything else but others were capable of producing reasonable quality photos. Houghton’s Ticka camera was available by 1906 and was capable of producing decent images on film.’
   Andy Patterson, for providing me with the article‘No Shadows’, by Luke S. K. Kwong, published in ‘History Today’ in September 2000.
   Tang Li, Public Services Librarian at Yale’s East Asia Collection, who suggested reading the curious ‘China under the empress dowager, being the history of the life and times of Tzu’ hsi’, by J. O. P. Bland and E. Backhouse.
   Frances Wood, English librarian, Sinologue and historian widely known for her writings on Chinese history.
   Google and Wikipedia. When I grew up in Guernsey there was one tiny (and private) library, the Priaulx. Other library books took a fortnight to order from mainland Britain - if you knew what you wanted to read. Now, with the click of a mouse, the whole universe from obscure Chinese scrolls to gravitational waves flies through the ether to my computer in deep woodland in East Sussex.
   And last but definitely not least, the Bard of Stratford:
   William Shakespeare (c. 1564–1616). Poet, playwright, whose ‘Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark’ gave General Yuán the idea for his own plot against the Emperor, after hearing the ghost of Hamlet’s father, King Hamlet, describe his murder: ‘Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard, My custom always of the afternoon...’
   For Shakespeare’s contemporary audiences the vileness of the crime was reinforced by the ugly effects of the poison, which clotted King Hamlet’s blood and ‘corrupted’ his body.Also Available [Картинка: i_004.jpg] 
 [Картинка: i_005.jpg] 

   First published in 2016 byMX Publishing
   335 Princess Park Manor
   Royal Drive, London, N11 3GX
   www.mxpublishing.com
   Digital edition converted and distributed byAndrews UK Limited
   www.andrewsuk.com
   © Copyright 2016 Tim Symonds and Lesley Abdela
   The right of Tim Symonds and Lesley Abdela to be identified as the author of this work has been asserted by them in accordance with the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1998.
   All rights reserved. No reproduction, copy or transmission of this publication may be made without express prior written permission. No paragraph of this publication may be reproduced, copied or transmitted except with express prior written permission or in accordance with the provisions of the Copyright Act 1956 (as amended). Any person who commits any unauthorised act in relation to this publication may be liable to criminal prosecution and civil claims for damage. All characters appearing in this work are fictitious. Any resemblance to real persons, living or dead is purely coincidental.
   The opinions expressed herein belong to the author and do not necessarily reflect those of MX Publishing or Andrews UK Limited.
   Cover by Brian Belanger
   zhahadun@myfairpoint.net

Взято из Флибусты, http://flibusta.net/b/683497
