
   Chapter One
   It is the first day of summer vacation between our junior year and senior year
of High School. Tim and Dave are over at my house hoping to catch a glimpse of
my hot mom and her three friends. We are sitting around and I am watching them
play the X-box. While we play, we talk trash mainly about the jobs we got for
summer. Tim and I had already turned 18 and Dave will be 18 by the end of the
month.
   My mom walks into the living room. Dave looked up.
   "Hey Mrs. May how are you today?" he asked.
   "I’m doing fine and you?"
   "I’m doing great now that I have gotten to see you." Dave raised his eyebrows
playfully.
   My mom knows that Dave has a crush on her. She just smiles at Dave, then turns
to me.
   "Hey Mike, Jane, Sue and Kay will be by later. You don’t mind, do you?"
   Before I could answer Tim jumps in, "We don’t mind at all."
   "Guess that answers your question mom. Do you want us to move to the
basement?" I ask, as she smiles at us.
   "No you can stay where you are," she says, walking by and leaving us in the
living room.
   Dave and Tim are my best friends; we’ve have been friends as far back as I can
remember. If you see one of us, the other two aren’t too far away. Dave is a
lot taller than Tim and me, at around six feet four inches, with me being six
foot even and Tim at five feet and ten inches. All three of us played on the
football team.
   We’re not muscle-beach muscular but we are very fit. I have heard girls from
school talk about how attractive we are. We normally don’t have much trouble
getting young ladies to date us, especially with Dave having picked up a
reputation with the ladies of having a large package. However lately we seem
to be going through a drought with the women.
   About an hour later there is a knock on the door. Dave jumps up and answers
it.
   "Well hello Mrs. Hill, Mrs. Powers, and Mrs. Peterson." Before they can say
anything Dave yells out, "Mrs. May your friends are here!" With a glance back
to the ladies, he invites them inside.
   As they enter the house, mom joins us in the living room. "Hey girls," she
calls out and escorts them over to the dining room table. Our dining room and
living room are really the same room, with the dining room sitting just off
from the kitchen.
   As they sit, Mrs. Powers asked, "What are you three guys up to this summer?"
   "I start a job with Big D’s security next week," I said.
   Tim answered, "I’m working down at Joe’s party store."
   "I got a job with Green’s Landscaping and I started about a month ago," Dave
answered.
   "Oh, I thought you had to be 18 to work there Dave," Mrs. Powers said.
   "Yes, you do. They hired me because I turn 18 in two weeks. The boss man said
he needs young strong men and he could train me. When I turn 18 then I will be
able to go out on jobs with one of his crews. I tried to talk Tim and Mike to
work there, but they both already had jobs lined up."
   "Are you going to have a big party for your 18th birthday?" Mrs. Hill asks.
   "I’d sure would like to, but my mom said no and I don’t have a place to have
one," Dave said.
   Mrs. Hill turns to my mom, "Kathy, Dave is turning 18 in two weeks. You have a
good size basement why don’t you let him have it here."
   "I don’t think so. Jack will be out of town," Mom replies.
   "Well he needs to have a party. I know the four of us can be here to make sure
it doesn’t get out of control." Mrs. Powers adds.
   "I still don’t think so." Mom says looking at Dave. He is giving her a real
sad face hoping she would change her mind. Then she adds, "I’ll have to think
about it."
   As we play on the x-box I am listening in on my mom and her friends. They are
very competitive and I hear them getting on mom about throwing Dave a party,
but she stood her ground and kept saying no.* * *
   A few days later as I came through the door mom says, "Mike, about that party
for Dave. I talked it over with your dad and he said it will be ok, but only
ten people max and no more. Plus my friends will be here to help me chaperone
since your dad will be out of town."
   "No problem because we decided we would go down to the Back Door Saloon that
night around 10 PM."
   "I’m glad you’re going to do something for Dave. I know you can get into the
saloon at 18 but you can’t drink any alcohol." Mom just had to remind me.
   "I know, but we were going to try to pick up some girls our age and dance."
   "Well that sounds like a plan," she says pleasantly.
   "Can we can meet up here around five before we go? We can shoot some pool
before hand."
   "Sure, but remember no more than ten people."
   "Yes mom."
   I go upstairs and send Dave and Tim a text about what mom told me.* * *
   Later that day I walk into the kitchen where my mom is, "Hey mom I need to let
you know that Dave has invited a few guys from where he works."
   "As long as there are no more than ten total here at the house I’m ok with
it."
   "Well yeah there will only be ten of us but some of the guys are in their
20’s." I hold my breath, hoping she’d be OK with it.
   "In that case I need to meet them to make sure they understand no alcohol."
   "Dave already told them."
   "I’m sure he did, but I would feel better if I met them beforehand."
   I was feeling a little humiliated that she didn’t trust Dave or me. I tell
her, "Ok, but I think you should trust us, besides you and your friends will
be here to check."
   "Alright you win but we will be checking." She said.* * *
   Today is Dave’s 18th birthday and mom had me cleaning up the basement. I tried
to tell her we would only be here for a few hours and it didn’t need a big
clean up. But she insisted that it had to be cleaned. Around four, mom’s
friends show up. They all come down to the basement to ensure that I had done
agood job on cleaning.
   They finally give their approval and we all go back upstairs. Around four
thirty the doorbell rings.
   Its Tim. "Hey, Hello ladies and you too Mike. Oh, I spoke to Dave he said they
will be here shortly."
   "Cool," is all I say and Tim and I head down to the basement. Before I get to
the bottom of the stairs the doorbell rings again. I turn and run back up the
stairs to answer the door. It is Dave and his friends from work.
   "Come on in guys," I say.
   Dave is the first to walk in followed by a small group of six guys. They all
seem to be in their early to mid 20’s. They must all have the same wardrobe
because they all wore a pair of tight fitting jeans and a tight T-shirt. Their
muscles seem to want to rip right thru their T’s. All six look like they
haven’t shaved for a few days. With all that said they are handsome in a ruff
way.
   Dave speaks first. "This is Mike and here are the ladies that I’ve been
telling you about. Please stand up ladies and let me introduce everyone."
   "Ok!" My mom said as the ladies stand.
   Pointing at my mom Dave starts to introduce the women. "This is Kathy May,
Mike’s mom. I hope you didn’t mind me using your first name."
   "No, that’s ok." Mom says.
   "Good standing next to Kathy is Kay Peterson, next to Kay is Sue Powers and
finally Jane Hill." Dave is grinning from ear to ear, now looking at the guys
who have all filed into the room. Dave continues, "Ladies this here is my
foreman Jake, next to him is Bob, Rich, Sam, Josh, and the guy with the camera
is Sean."
   Jake jumps in. "It’s great to finally meet you. Dave talks about you ladies
all the time. Trust me it’s all good. Kathy, I hope you don’t mind me calling
you by your first name?"
   "No that’s fine Jake." Mom answers.
   Smiling Jake continues. "Good, good, I know you said no alcohol but I did
bring a gift for you fine ladies. It’s a bottle of wine for each of you. Plus
one for you to enjoy tonight. Don’t worry there is no alcohol for us guys
tonight. I hope you’re not upset about this and will accept my gift."
   Before my mom could say anything Sue answers, "Thanks Jake, we’ll enjoy your
gift."
   My mom gives Sue a dirty look. Then turns and smiles at Jake, "Thanks Jake for
the kind offer and we do accept."
   Jane heads to the kitchen, "I’ll get some glasses for the wine. Don’t worry
Kathy I know where they are."
   Kay follows Jane and says, "I’ll help her."
   "Ok guys we’re in the basement let’s go." I tell the guys. As the guys headed
down to the basement Jake was still talking to my mom and Sue while Sean took
pictures. I’m not really understanding what or why Sean felt he needed to film
everything.
   I was waiting on Jake not really paying attention to what Jake was talking
about with the women. I did notice my mom and Sue laughing at what he was
saying. Jane and Kay return with the glasses and Jake opens the bottle of wine
for them and even pours their first glass.
   As I close the gap between me and the group I could hear what Jake was saying,
"This wine is home made by one of our customers. It’s very good and I hope you
enjoy it. I’ll come back up in a while to see if you liked it."
   "Thanks for the wine and I’m sure we will enjoy it, but if it’s not good we
will be honest and tell you," Sue says.
   "That’s all I can ask for, enjoy." Jake gives me a smile on his way
downstairs.
   As I head down after him, I hear Jane say, "That Jake sure is cocky."
   "Yeah, he may be arrogant, but dam he’s hot," says Sue.
   "Damn all of them are Hunks!" adds Kay. Then I was out of ear shot and didn’t
hear anything else.* * *
   We are shooting pool and getting to know one another. Jake, Sam, and Bob try
to see who could bullshit the best; all three of them have silver tongues.
They should have been used car salesmen, because they could talk about
anything and everything. They were guys who could walk into a room of
strangers and you would think they have been friends with them for years.
   To myself I think, "The women were right these guys do have an arrogant cocky
attitude, especially Jake."
   It is Bob who shouts out, "Fuck Dave hands down your right. Those four bitches
are MILF’s."
   "So you believe me now," Dave answers Bob.
   "Maybe we should invite them down here to join us," adds Rich.
   "You guys know they’re married," I say.
   "Doesn’t bother me Mike, not one bit," Josh says laughing.
   "Hey Sam come with me. I think I’ll go check and see if they enjoyed the
wine." Jake says.
   We all watch Sam and Jake walk up the stairs. I look at Dave, "You having a
good time?"
   "I think it’s going to get a lot better in a few."
   "You mean once we get to the club?"
   Dave laughs for some reason, "I’m hoping before we go to the club."
   Bob, Rich, and Josh break out laughing. I look over at Tim and he doesn’t get
the joke either. Sean must be real shy because he hasn’t said much all night
so far. He just takes pictures and smiles.
   It must have been about 30 minutes since Jake and Sam went upstairs, but I
wasn’t really paying much attention since I was in the middle of a pool game
with Tim. Then I hear footsteps on the stairs coming down to the basement.
   It’s Jake and damn he has the ladies right behind him. Jake sees me looking
and with a smirk, says, "Hey Dave you didn’t tell me these girls are teachers.
Plus they teach at the same school you go to. Damn I would have done better in
school if we had fine bitches like this at our school."
   I thought for sure mom and her friends would have hit Jake for calling them
bitches, but nothing happens. They are just smiling and each of them has a
bottle of wine in their hands.
   Dave is smiling. "I didn’t think about telling you."
   "Well, they have decided to come down and join us. They like the wine so much
they’re going to drink the other bottles that I gave them. Hope you guys don’t
mind but Kathy still insists that you all don’t drink while you’re here."
   I noticed Sean is taking pictures of the group coming down the stairs. As they
walk into the room, Jake takes them over to where Dave was standing. I also
notice Sam wasn’t with them.
   With a smirk Jake is talking with the ladies, then says to Dave, "Ok, Dave
you’re in luck tonight. These bitches told me they’re going to give you a big
birthday kiss."
   I still don’t understand why these four teachers have not jump down Jake’s
throat for calling them bitches. Something just doesn’t feel right to me.
   "OK who’s first?" Dave asks.
   Jane walks up to Dave and gave him a kiss on the check.
   Jake frowns. "NO, NO, NO! We agreed on a good proper kiss. On the mouth with
tongue. Come on Jane do it right now. It is his first time being kissed as an
adult, after all."
   Jane looks at Jake then leans in and gives Dave a big wet kiss on the lips.
Their kiss quickly turns to them playing tongue hockey! When she is done Sue
takes her turn and gives Dave another big sloppy kiss. Then Kay takes her
turn.
   When it is mom’s turn, she looks at me first. Maybe she wants me to intervene.
But I’m just watching.
   She smiles at Dave and says, "Happy birthday Dave. I know you’ve wanted this
for a long time." She then leans in and gave him a wild kiss which also
included a lot of tongue.
   Jake again smirks. "Ok Mike let’s get some dancing music on. Now, ladies you
all need to give Dave a good slow dance and then dance with the rest of us."
   I can’t believe what I’m seeing. Mom and her friends are doing everything Jake
tells them. I would never have believed my mom would kiss Dave like that, and
now she is dancing with him! I guess the wine must be pretty strong.
   I make sure to cue up some slow dance songs. We watch as each one of the
mature women give Dave a long slow dance. When they finish dancing with Dave
they start dancing with the rest of us. As everyone danced Sam came back down
the basement with a few more bottles of wine.
   "Ok, Just as you asked for: a few more bottles of wine." Sam says, looking at
me he continued, "They enjoyed the wine so much they wanted more for later."
   After a while Jake and his friend have the women off to one side of the room.
The women, along with Jake and his crew seem to be having a good time.
Everyone is laughing and smiling.
   Dave, Tim and I are shooting pool when Jake yells out, "Hey Dave we need a
judge over here. We’re having a contest to see who has the sexiest bra on."
   My mom whispers something to Jake. He laughs, then looks at me. "You don’t
mind, I hope because your mom thinks she is going to win."
   "Knowing how competitive these ladies are even if I did mind they’re going to
do it anyway," I reply, laughing.
   Dave moves over to Jake. "Ok how does this work?" he asks.
   Jake takes charge. "Ok line up ladies. Make sure there is some room between
you. Kathy since this is your home you’re first. Dave get over here and stand
in front of Kathy." The women all move until they were in a line. Dave gets in
front of my mom. Tim and I move to where we could have be a better views. Sean
is still taking more pictures.
   The women are all wearing jeans, with my mom, Jane and Kay having on pull over
tops. Sue is wearing a button down top. Nothing sexy, just normal tops.
   Jake looks around and seems happy where everyone was. "Ok, Kathy take your top
off. Don’t worry about Mike. He must have seen you in a bathing suit before?"
   Mom smiles at Jake and looks at everyone but me before she starts pulling off
her top. I am excited about seeing my mom take off her top not just in front
of me but also in front of Tim and Dave. Dave has had the hots for her as long
as I can remember. This is so hot. Plus there are six guys she hasn’t met
before.
   She reaches down and slowly pulls her top over her head. I watch every move
she makes. I’ve seen her in a bathing suit but for some reason this just
seemed different. As she pulls her top off, her bra comes into view. Its just
a plain white bra. Not sure how she figured she was going to win. As her top
passes her bra, her boobs bounce a little. She finally gets it over her head.
Jake holds out his hand for her to give her top to him.
   Dave makes sure he checked her out by looking over every inch of her. Dave
then says, "Next."
   Jane is next Dave moved over to stand in front of her. She also pulls off her
top over her head and hands it to Jake, who was handing over to Bob. He puts
them on a counter by the dryer. Her bra was red and lacey. Dave makes sure he
checks her out too. Kay is next she was wearing a large black bra.
   I’m thinking Sue’s got this if she has on anything but a plain bra. Dave is
now in front of Sue. She has on a white button-down blouse. She slowly
unbuttons her blouse starting at the bottom. As she unbuttons her brown bra
slowly comes into view. Then she opens her blouse and takes it off. I am
disappointed all the women had on plain white bras.
   Dave announces, "It looks like it’s a four-way tie."
   Sam says, "we got to have a winner." All of us guys agreed. Even the women
seem to be in agreement.
   Jake smiles at Dave, "Let me think. You four go ahead and have some more
wine."
   I was off to the side when I hear Dave say, "Why don’t we exchange phone
numbers, that way I will be able to thank you for a wonderful party."
   The MILF’s all laugh and one says, "okay I don’t see the harm." Dave smiles as
all of the girls added their numbers to his phone, then added his to theirs.
   Sue finishes adding her number to Dave’s phone and grabs her glass. "Hey we’re
almost out of wine. Do you have any more? It really tastes good."
   "Got it covered," Sam says as he runs up the stairs.
   The women are sipping on their wine and talking with Jake and Bob. I try to
listen in but can’t hear them. A few minutes later, Sam comes back down the
stairs with four more bottles of wine.
   I was starting to wonder where all the wine was coming from. The girls must
have finished off at least two bottles each. I would have expected them to be
completely drunk by now. They aren’t acting drunk but seem to be okay with any
suggestions Jake gave them.
   Jake turns around and smiled at Dave and the rest of us and says, "ok the
women have agreed to see which one of them has the sexiest panties on." He
crows. "Ok ladies line up again same as last time. Dave get over here you’re
still the judge."
   Everyone moves into position. I make sure I have a good view again. I can’t
believe mom and her friends are going along with all of this. I’m not sure
why, I guess because of the wine, but neither mom nor her friends would ever
have agreed to stripping normally.
   I think about putting a stop to it all, but my cock is hard as a rock and
overrides my thoughts.
   Jake makes a few adjustments with where the women are standing. "Ok Dave start
with Kathy first again."
   Dave moves in front of my mom, "Ok, Kathy let us see what you got on."
   She smiles at Dave, then reaches down and slowly unzips her jeans and then
pulls them down her long legs. As her white granny panties come into view
everyone kind of sighs because there is nothing sexy about her plain white
panties. After she finished stepping out of her pants, Dave just smiles and
checked her out from head to toe. I look at him and chuckle. He is practically
drooling looking at my mom almost naked.
   Dave moves down the line, inspecting each woman. None of them are wearing
anything that even looks sexy. Jane has on blue panties, Sue has on s red
thong, and Kay has on white panties with red dots all over them.
   Dave announces, "sorry to have to say this again but it’s a tie."
   Sam adds, "guess we’re going to have to think of something else to get a
winner."
   Jake looks at Bob and nods. Bob goes over and picks up the ladies jeans and
puts them on the counter with the tops.
   Sue notices what Bob did and says in a loud voice, "hey give us our clothes
back!"
   "Not until we have a winner. Anyway, you sexy ladies need to dance with the
judge. Hey Rich, lets listen to your play list. I think you have a much better
song selection."
   Rich hooks his phone up to the speakers and turns on his tunes, which are
nothing but slower dance songs. Sue is already swaying to the first song and
steps up to dance with Dave.
   I can’t believe what I’m seeing as I watch each women dance with Dave with
just their bra and panties on. When Sean walks passed me, I notice he had now
switched from a still camera to a video camera. He moves around the room
making sure he films each one in their bra and panties dancing with Dave. When
each lady finishes her dance with Dave, one of the other guys quickly steps up
to dance with her. I make sure that I get to dance with Sue and Jane.
   When everyone is done dancing, the ladies end up back over with Jake, Sam,
Rich, and Bob talking. I watch closely and notice that the women are the only
ones drinking the wine. I’ve seen my mom drunk before but she still doesn’t
seem drunk at all even though she must have drank over two bottles. She isn’t
acting normal though. I’ve never seen my mom or any of her friends be so
submissive. I just couldn’t figure out why but I wasn’t going to stop it
either.
   Just then I hear Sam loudly say, "we still have to have a winner and I think
we have figured out a way."
   Jane and Kay shake their heads no. I don’t know what was said when they were
talking, but I guess it means more stripping.
   "He’s right we have to have a winner," Sue gushes. "I’m in."
   Jane and Kay don’t say anything but nod and follow Sue.
   Before anyone else can say a word, Josh shouts out, "ok, bitches you know the
drill! Get in line! Dave get over here!"
   Again everyone is up and moving around. Dave stands in front of my mom and
says, "ok, what am I judging this time."
   Jake was taking charge now. "These fine MILF’s have agreed that we do need a
winner. Rich suggested that we find out who has the best-looking tits. So Dave
one at a time they will remove their bra for you to decide who boobs are the
best."
   "Now that is something I will love to judge!" Dave says.
   Damn, I couldn’t believe what I just heard, but I make sure I had a great
place to view the contest. Man, I am getting excited. I always wanted to see
my mom’s and her friend’s tits, and tonight is my lucky night. I was going to
have my first view of them. I didn’t know why the women were doing this. Maybe
it’s their competitiveness between them. Or Jake has some kind of power over
them, or possibly the wine. Whatever it is I’m going to enjoy every minute of
it.
   Mom being first slowly moves her hands behind her back to unfasten her bra. I
watch as she slowly unsnaps her bra. Damn, she is making this into a show that
I will never forget! After unsnapping her bra she reaches up to her left
shoulder, pulling down her bra strap and letting it slowly slide down her arm.
Now holding on to the front of her bra, she reaches up and slowly pulled down
the other strap. She smiles at everyone and slowly pulls it from her body.
   Dave holds out his hand for her to hand him her bra. As she reached out and
hands her bra to him her tits bounce free. Her boobs are hanging there fully
exposed in front of Dave and all us. As I look at her breasts for the first
time, I noticed they sagged but still looked great. Her nipples are hard as a
rock, pointing straight out from her areolas, which are a nice light color.
   Dave made sure he got an eye full, then decides to get a hand full. He reaches
out and roughly grabs hold of her boobs and fondles them, tweaking her
nipples. I look at mom’s face and her eyes are closed. She looks like she is
having trouble breathing. He leans forward, sticks out his tongue and licks
her nipple. I watch mom’s mouth and her eyes fly open, but Dave isn’t
finished. He open his mouth and sucked it into his mouth. Mom must like it
because everyone hears a loud moan escape from her.
   Dave pulls back for a second. He looks over to Jake who was watching and yells
out, "not sure if this is part of the rules for judging. But I need to make
sure I make the right decision!"
   "It’s your birthday. Your rules," Jake answers laughing.
   Mom gives Jake a nasty look but doesn’t stop Dave from playing with and
sucking on her nipples and tits.
   When Dave is finished with mom he moves over to Sue. Sue also makes a show of
removing her bra. Her boobs aren’t small or large, but perfect for her body.
They also sag a little down her chest but as she moves, they bounce nicely.
Her nipples are hard which makes her pink areolas look large. Dave also plays
with her tits just like he had with mom.
   Next up is Kay. She really tries to outdo the other two with her show. With
each move she makes, she wiggles her boobs, making them bounce. When Dave
finally gets a hold of her bra she makes one final bounce for us.
   I hear someone yell out, "damn!!"
   Kay’s tits are a sight to see. They are much bigger then Mom’s and Sue’s.
   Being ten years younger than mom and Sue, her tits don’t sag at all. You can
tell that they were very firm.
   "Damn, this bitch has a fine set of tits," Dave announces.
   Her nipples point straight up, and she has large dark areolas. Her nipples are
the largest so far. Dave gropes her tits making her nipples hard and stick
out. We all watch as he starts to play with her nipples. I think we all wish
we were him, I know I do. He ends like he did with mom and Sue, with licking
and sucking on them.
   I watch as Kay reacted just like mom and Sue, moaning and panting. I no longer
cared that it was my mom and her friends. All I want at the moment is a chance
to be doing just what Dave was doing.
   Finally it is Jane’s turn. She doesn’t put on a show. She just mechanically
removes her bra. As her breast came into view everyone’s mouths drop. Jane’s
breasts are much bigger than all the other women. I think that’s why Jake made
her last. When the large bra drops into Dave’s hand, her massive jugs stood
proud on her chest. She has very large dark areolas. Her nipples are also dark
and have to be a good inch long. I look up at Jane’s face. She is blushing,
her face and chest turning bright red, but she doesn’t try to cover up.
   I hear all the guys groaning and a couple comment about how fantastic they
look. I am surprised to see that, when Jane heard the comments, she
straightens her back and seems to push out those magnificent tits.
   Dave grabs her long nipples, teasing, pulling and pinching them before sucking
each one for a few moments. Jane is moaning and panting, her hands reaching up
to hold Dave’s head. When he pulls away, he looks up at her face. Her eyes are
closed, and her mouth is slightly open. He leans in and plants a long passion
kiss on her lips while he gropes her tits. We all stood there watching as he
continues to kiss her. I doubt there is a soft cock in the house. I know mine
is so hard it hurt.
   He finally pulls back and looks at all the guys yelling out, "I think we have
a winner."
   Jake immediately takes charge. "Ok, you sexy ladies let’s get a group pose
with the birthday boy."
   Dave quickly steps in the middle of the women as Sean continues to video it.
Then Dave poses with each one separately. His arm wraps around their shoulders
and his hand closes over each of their tits for their individual picture.
   "Ok guys let strip down to our briefs so the ladies don’t feel alone," Jake
suggests.
   We all pull off our shirts and then pull off our pants. It feels weird to be
standing in just my underwear in front of my mom and her friends who are also
my teachers. I wonder how I’m going to be able to concentrate during classes
this year after today.
   Dave then says, "I need to retake the pictures now that I’m only wearing
boxers." Everyone has a laugh and agrees.
   After Dave is done having his picture retaken with each MILF, plus one more
group picture, the women move back with Jake and his work buds. I watch as Bob
makes sure the women are still drinking wine and keeping their glasses filled.
   I am talking with Tim when he hit me in the arm and points towards Jake. I
couldn’t believe what I was seeing. Jake slowly dancing with my mom, with his
back to us. I could see her bare breasts against his undershirt. He is holding
her real close. I watch as they turn. One of his large hands is on her bare
ass cheek. His thumb is working its way under her panty material in the back.
   He sees me watching and smiles at me, while whispering in her ear. Between
whispers he nibbles on her ear. As they continue to slowly rotate, I see her
face over his shoulder. She is smiling with a dazed, distant look.
   He whispers something to her and she leans back slightly. Jake moves his hands
to her bare tits and starts groping her.
   Looking at Tim I whisper to him, "should I stop it?"
   "No, man, she don’t seem drunk to me. Let her enjoy herself."
   I notice that Sue and Kay are also dancing and are enjoying the same treatment
that my mom is receiving from Jake. Dave and Sam have Jane cornered by one of
the couches. She is smiling but shaking her head back and forth, as if saying
no to something.
   Sean continues to video. Damn it seems like Sean is following Dave around
videoing or taking pictures of everything he is doing with the women. As I
think about it, he is also capturing all of Tim’s involvement with the ladies.
   I guess the women have things under control and I go back to talking with Tim.
I keep a close eye on Jake and my mom. One time she looks around the room. I
am not sure if she was looking for me or if she was checking on her friends.
When she returns her attention to Jake he gives her a big kiss.
   Tim asks, "hey you want another pool game, before we head out to the club?"
   I smile at him and say, "sure why not? From what I see I don’t think we are
leaving anytime soon."
   "You’re probability right man," he answers.
   I rack up the balls for another game with Tim, he again bumps my shoulder.
"Hey, you need to look over at Jake."
   It takes me a few seconds to find Jake. He and my mom had moved over to one of
the couches. They are sitting there making out intensely, like they were
lovers. Jake has his hands around mom’s waist and is trying to remove her
panties. She is fending him off. Jake assertively puts her hands on his
shoulders, then reaches down to her underwear. She keeps her hands on his
shoulders as he removes her panties.
   My mouth falls open in shock as his hand begins working between her thighs. My
mom is completely naked, making out with and getting felt up by a man she met
a couple hours ago.
   I look over her fabulous body. I can’t really see her pussy, but Jake’s hand
is moving over it. Then I see his fingers vanish inside. I can’t help but
consider what it would be like to be in Jake’s position.
   I turn away and shake my head, doing my best to dismiss the thought even
though my cock pulses in my boxer shorts. I can tell I’m leaking pre cum.
   As I look around the room, I see all the women are making out. Jane is with
Sam, Kay is with Rich, and Sue is with Bob. Josh and Dave are watching Jane
and Sam. Let’s not forget Sean who continues to capture everything on video.
   I start to move toward Jake and my mom when Tim grabs me.
   "Look I don’t think you’ll stop anything. You’re just going to get your ass
kicked or from looking at it, piss your mom off. Don’t fuck up Dave’s party,
so cool it man. They’re just having fun," he warned me.
   I look at Tim. "You’re right. Everyone is an adult."
   As I sat down on a stool I start to wondering how far it will all go. My cock
is still so hard. I wonder if these fine MILF’s will allow these guys they
just met to fuck them.
   I focus on mom. Jake is all over her, playing with her pussy as they kiss. He
breaks their kiss to stand, with his back to me. I see her face turned up to
him, talking. His hands are busy. Mom’s hands move to the waistband of his
boxers.
   Jake’s boxers drop. I see my mom look down, but can’t see what she is looking
at. Then her head lowers and Jake steps to the side. I can now see that she’s
got his fat hard cock in her mouth.
   My hands are trembling, but I can’t look away. I find myself squeezing my
erection over my underwear.
   Jake quickly yanks his cock back, out of mom’s mouth. I wonder if he was about
to come. He takes her hands and helps her move sideways on the couch. He
pushes her until she is lying on her back.
   Jake moves between her legs. He is talking to her in a low voice that I can’t
really understand as I watch him put one of her feet on each of his shoulders.
She is rubbing her breasts.
   His hands move between them and I can’t see what he is doing between mom’s
thighs. He looks up at her.
   "Get ready bitch, cause here it comes." I hear him say this clearly.
   Jake sighs and mom throws her head back. I guess he’s entered her.
   "Oh MY GOD!!" mom screams as he forces his cock into her. He pulls back
slightly and thrust again and again going deeper. Over and over he pushes into
mom’s pussy going deeper with each thrust.
   I watch not believing my eyes. My mom is being fucked like a common whore and
from what I could tell, enjoying every second. I see Jake look down at her as
he pulls back until he is almost out of her. She is moaning softly. Without a
word he violently pushes forward. Mom’s eyelids flutter and she takes a deep
breath.
   Then she screams, "OH MY GOD!!"
   He smiled down at her, holding himself deep inside her. "You like that bitch?
I’m going to fuck you," he explains, repositioning her. He turns her on the
couch so that his back is to me and only her shoulders and upper back are on
the couch.
   Jake had her pinned down. I could only really see her feet up on his
shoulders, his back, and his bare ass and legs. I could see mom’s pussy lips
stretched around his thick shaft. His balls were covering her asshole.
Slightly to the side, I could see her face. Her mouth hung open in pleasure.
   He is murmuring to her, but suddenly, I hear him cry out.
   "Time to get fucked, bitch. Like really fucked. I’m going to fuck you like the
bitch in heat you are!"
   Mom’s hands appeared on Jake’s bare ass cheeks as they began rising and
falling. He stared to pound mom’s pussy, hard and deep.
   That’s not love-making. That’s just hard fucking. Mom seems to love it,
though. She grunts over and over, with each deep cock-thrust. I’m shocked to
see that he somehow picks up the pace. Now, mom’s heaving tits are bouncing
all over the place. I could see them wobbling even around Jake’s humping body.
   I found myself unable to look away from my mother being dominated. I seriously
consider stopping them, then I hear…
   "That’s it! Fuck me hard!!" It’s mom’s voice. "Oh God yes! I’m cumming!"
   I catch glimpses of her face as Jake pumps into her. My face burns with shame.
She is climaxing. I never thought I’d see my own mother’s "O" face.
   Mom finishes her orgasm, panting, but Jake keeps pounding her hard. I can hear
her speaking to him softly, but can’t distinguish her words. Jake slows down.
He stares at mom intensely, and whispers something. She nods.
   "Ahhh fuck," he says, almost like he has lost something. "Ah Fuck!" he says
louder. Then he grunts and his body stiffens between her legs.
   "FUCK!" he cries.
   I can see his shaft throbbing between her puffy pussy lips. He’s coming in
her. My mom’s ass cheeks ripple. She’s milking him. A moment later, a shiny
white trickle streams down her ass cleavage.
   His dick keeps pulsing. It must be a pretty big load. When he finishes, Jake
steps back, wobbly as if dizzy. His bare, wet cock pops free. A sticky drip of
cum hangs from his tip. Jake looks around for Dave.
   "Hey birthday boy get your ass over here. It’s your turn."
   Mom gives Jake a dirty look and says, "really?" But she doesn’t move or close
her legs. I see a small pale puddle form on the carpet below her, Jake’s cum
dripping out.
   He laughs at her. "Yeah really, it’s his birthday and he’s always wanted to
fuck you."
   Mom looks over as Dave hurries toward her. As Dave rushes over to mom, he is
pulling off his boxers. I chuckle as he almost trips and falls. He catches his
balance and his cock comes into view. I notice he’s big, longer and fatter
then Jake.
   Mom had noticed, too and her eyes were locked onto Dave’s erection. "Jesus
it’s huge!" she yells.
   The other three MILF’s stop what they are doing to see what she is yelling
about. Their eyes all get wide and I hear one of them say, "Damn it is huge."
   Dave is in such a hurry to replace Jake that he leaps between her legs,
grinning ear to ear.
   "Finally I get to fuck you!" he gushes.
   Mom just smiles, her eyes still fixed on Dave’s enormous cock. He didn’t pause
at all once in place, using one hand to guide it in. Her cum-filled pussy
easily accepts his deep thrust as he lands. Both mom and Dave grunt as soon as
he bottoms out. I’m not sure if it’s from pain or pleasure. He starts pounding
her pussy hard and fast.
   All I can think is here is my mom fucking my best friend who just turned 18.
And there is Sean filming the action.
   I watch in amazement as Dave gave my mom’s pussy all he was worth. He grins
like a kid in a candy store and I watch him handle her roughly. His hands
latch onto her milky-white breasts and he pistons in and out of her
mercilessly. She moans and thrashes below him.
   Dave throws his head back and roars. I see his thick shaft swell between her
worked-over labia. Mom is staring at Dave, her eyes wide and her body
quivering. She has to feel his cum splattering her guts. I guess she doesn’t
mind at this point. I watch her mouth move, but can’t hear what she says. Dave
just pins her down, frozen in place, his body shaking and his hips pulsing. He
finally stops after finishing filling her pussy with his seed and pulls his
softening cock out of her.
   With a dazed look on his face he shouts, "Your turn Tim!"
   Tim wastes no time either, quickly moving to take Dave’s place with my mom.
She doesn’t even try to get up or move to stop him. At that moment I don’t
think she could move. My head starts swimming with mixed emotions. I don’t
want to watch Tim fuck my mom, but is that because I am jealous? I am so
fucking horny that I can’t think straight.
   I go looking for Sue. There are sweaty, humping bodies everywhere. I see Bob
thrusting into someone. He is steadily pumping someone as she is bent over the
arm of the couch. He slaps her ass sharply, grunting. Then he steps back and I
see Sue raise her head to look behind her. He withdraws and I see her pussy is
swollen and red and leaking cum.
   I drop my boxers, stepping up behind her.
   Sue looks over her shoulder at me. "Hi Mike," she says casually.
   "Hi, Mrs. Powers," I reply. My cock is so hard, I don’t even need to guide it.
I just grab her hips and slip inside.
   She grunts as I mount her. "MMmmm. Nice party for Dave, huh?"
   I start pumping her doggy style. The image of my biology teacher’s ass
rippling against my thighs as I plow into her is surreal.
   "Uh, yea, I guess," I offer, reaching below her to grab her tits. I use them
to pull her back onto me as I start to fuck her rhythmically.
   I am thrusting hard and fast in and out of her. With each stroke she moans
louder. I notice her pussy muscles are clinging on to my dick as I slide in
and out of her. I could see my driving shaft become smeared with her come and
some of Bob’s.
   I can’t hold back. I’m about to add my load to Bob’s, deep inside Sue. Damn, I
am a little pissed that I couldn’t last longer on one hand, but on the other,
I am happy as hell. I finally got to fuck Sue, my longtime teacher crush.
   I plunge in deep and I squeeze Mrs. Power’s soft ass cheeks as hard as I can.
Her puckered butt hole winks up at me. With a shudder, I start adding my load
to Bob’s deep inside her pussy.
   I finish emptying my balls with a groan, then dismount her with a slap on the
ass, as I had seen Bob do. As soon as I move away from Sue I am replaced by
someone. I didn’t pay attention who it was, I just move over to the pool table
to watch the action.
   Jake comes over to me. "Hey, bud take this it will help you."
   He gives me a blue pill and I know what it is.
   "Thanks." I pop the pill into my mouth.
   I am definitely turned on from watching mom and her friends being fucked in
front of me. It is obvious that the women are enjoying themselves.
   I try to watch everything, but there was a lot going on. All four women are
being fucked senseless and Sean keeps videoing it all but mostly Dave and Tim
as they fuck each MILF. I notice that when Dave and Tim were resting Sean
jumps in to fuck one of the women.
   All the hot action got me ready to go again. I first fuck Jane, then Kay. Both
pussies are very cummy and I happily fill them with my loads too.
   As the fuck fest continues, Dave and Tim are now fucking Jane at the same
time. They have her on her hands and knees. Dave is fucking her from behind.
Tim is shoving his cock down her throat and of course Sean made sure to catch
all the action. Everyone seems to be having a great time.
   At around 2 A.M. everything finally ends. The women look exhausted. All four
of them move to the same couch. Within a few minutes they either fall asleep
or pass out.
   "Ok, guys we need to clean this place up so Kathy won’t have a lot of cleaning
to do tomorrow," Jake says in a commanding voice.
   "She’ll just make me clean it up tomorrow," I say.
   Jake just gives me a funny look and says, "since we’re all here to help it
will be done and over with, get busy guys."
   Everyone jumps up and starts cleaning. Jake says, "make sure we pick up all
the wine bottles, so I can return them to get refilled. Mike where is the
dishwasher? I want to make sure these glasses get wash tonight."
   Looking at him oddly I take him upstairs and show him where it is. There
really isn’t enough dishes in the washer to be washed but Jake turns it on any
ways.
   When we finish cleaning which was mainly making sure all the wine bottles and
glasses were picked up, we all stand around the women admiring them. Jake has
a smirk on his face, then speaks.
   "They’re out for the night." He then grabs Kay’s long nipples and gives them a
hard pull.
   "Go on guys make sure before you leave you play with these big nipples one
last time," Jake suggests.
   As the guys finish one last feel of Kay’s long nipples, they head upstairs and
out the door. After the last one is gone, I get some blankets and go back down
stairs. I make sure I get one good last look at the girls.
   Before I cover them with the blankets I play with each of them again. I take
extra time with Kay’s and Jane’s nipples. I don’t have sex with my mom but I
play with her tits before I cover her up. Her body smells strongly like male
sweat and cum. I walk to the stairs and turn off the lights and head to bed
myself.
   When I finally get out of bed the next day I hear the ladies in the living
room. I am just getting out of bed when I got a text from my work. The boss
knows I was out partying last night but if I can he needs me at work. I don’t
want to hang around my mom and her friends right now, so I sent a text back to
him saying I’m in.
   As I walk down stairs to the living room all of the women eyes turn towards
me. "Good morning ladies," is all I could think of to say.
   The four of them reply, "good morning" almost at the same time.
   Sue speaks next, "Mike do you know where our bras and panties are?"
   "The last I saw them they were with your clothes."
   They give me a nasty look so I continue, "I don’t have them. You can check my
room. Plus if anyone took them I don’t know who."
   "It’s alright," my mom says trying to keep the peace.
   Then I say a real dumb thing.
   "Dave said thanks for a wonderful birthday party."
   No one says a word. All four of them just give me a nasty look. So I continue
on my way out the door.
   "I need to get to work."
   The next few days, Mom’s friends still came over to the house but nothing is
said about the party. Dave and Tim stop coming over to the house. They say
they were just busy with work, but I think it is because of what happened.* * *
   It is a few weeks after the party on a Saturday and about noon. I was getting
ready to head out for work when I hear the doorbell ring. I know my mom’s
friends were already over at the house but didn’t think anything about it. My
mom answered the door and I hear her say, "Mike is up in his room."
   I head down to see who it is when I hear Dave’s voice.
   "I’m not here to see Mike. I just wanted to ask you four if you would like to
go to a party this weekend?"
   As I peek from the stairs and make sure nobody could see me, I notice Dave was
carrying a gallon zip lock bag. Looks like it was filled with red flash
drives.
   "I don’t think so Dave. I think we’ve partied enough for this summer," I hear
my mom say.
   "OK, Jake just wanted me to ask."
   "Tell him thanks for the invite but no thanks," I hear someone other than my
mom answer.
   "Tell Mike I’ll text him, I need to get to work," he said and as he turned to
head out he stops. "Oh I almost forgot. I have copies of the party pictures
for you. I made enough copies for all of you," he says and pulls out one of
the red flash drives from his zip lock bag handing one to each one of the
ladies.
   Someone says, "Thanks, who is the other flash drives for?"
   "No one right now they are just extra. Call me it you have any questions about
the pictures," Dave says as he walked out the door.
   After Dave left, I walked downstairs. I could hear the ladies talking. I
couldn’t make out exactly what they were saying but whatever it was it wasn’t
good. I walked into the living room and they all shut up.
   "Hey ladies how’s things?" I asked. No one said a word so I shrugged my
shoulders and started for the door as I walked out the door, I could hear them
start talking again.
   I was just getting into my car when I got a text from Dave.
   -Skip work today. Get over here now-
   I text back:
   -I have to call work but I’ll stop by as soon as I can.-
   Dave replied:
   -k-
   I called my boss telling him something had come up and I couldn’t make it
today. I got to Dave’s and was just about to knock when he opened the door to
let me in. "Come on up to my room we got to talk."
   After we got into his room I ask, "Ok what going on?"
   "I just dropped off the pictures of the party with your mom and the other
teachers. Here is your copy." Dave then tossed a red flash drive at me.
   "Yeah I heard. I was on the stairs when you did. So what the fuck are you
planning?"
   Just then his doorbell rang and Dave ran down to answer it. When he came back
upstairs Tim was with him.
   Tim and I sat down and looked at Dave. He smiled at Tim, took a deep breath
and said, "I did it Tim, I made copies of all the pictures and videos from the
party and I just delivered them to the sluts."
   We just look at Dave so he continued, "they didn’t say much as I got out of
there as quickly as I could. I just told them to call me if they have any
questions. I figured after they look at the pictures they will be calling or
texting me," Dave informed us what he was thinking.
   Tim smiled at Dave. "So we’re going to do this?" he asked.
   "You bet your ass we are. I don’t think it will be too long before they call
so let’s play some games," Dave said.
   We started to play on his x-box when Dave got a phone call. He looked at us
and mouthed, "It’s them." He went into the hall so the ladies didn’t know we
were there, which meant we couldn’t hear what was being said either.
   Dave came back into the room laughing. "Man oh man them four are so fucking
pissed off. They had me on speaker, so they all could talk. First they asked
if they were drugged. Then they asked what I wanted. They kept yelling so much
that I couldn’t understand half what they were saying. So I told them to calm
down and text me. I would come over to their house and talk to them one at a
time. The first one to text me first is whom I would talk with first. Mike
you’re going to get the third degree when you get home. Just be prepared
because they’re going to want to know if you know anything about what I want."
   Tim was laughing. "Love it when a plan comes through."
   "What plan? What the hell are you talking about?"
   Dave looked at me and explained, "that’s right we didn’t tell you. The party
was all a set up. I was telling Jake about how hot these four teachers were
and he and I came up with a plan. He would get some wine from his friend who
would lace it with drugs. The wine had very little alcohol in it but would
cover the taste of the drugs. I don’t know what drug it was but whoever drinks
it won’t say no to anything. Well you saw how Jake talked them into
everything. Sean took the pictures, now we will see if they will do what we
want."
   "That’s blackmail Dave! They could lose their jobs!" I yelled. They were now
both looking at me. I continued, "Look guys I don’t think I can’t stop you
from doing whatever you have planned, but I don’t want any part of it."
   Dave jumped in, "That’s ok Mike, and you don’t have to be involved. Tim and I
are just letting you know it’s going to happen."
   "I think it will be hot dominating these four teachers," Tim added. Dave give
him a wicked wink with a grin on his face.
   I sat there dumbfounded. I didn’t know what to do but even though I didn’t
want to get involved, my cock was getting hard thinking about what Dave and
Tim were planning.
   "So let me get this straight, you don’t want to be involved but you won’t stop
us from doing what we’re going to do?" Dave asked.
   I started to say something but Dave continued, "How are you going to act after
we blackmail your mom? You know we don’t need you getting all upset and
fucking everything up." Now they both looked at me and waited for my reply.
   "Look guys first, I don’t want to be actively part of helping blackmail her or
her friends. I’m not sure about committing incest, but as you know I would
fuck the other three. Second, I want you two to keep me informed as to what is
going on. Third, I want to watch all copies of pictures and videos you record
of the women, and fourth, we’ll see what happens from there. Finally I’m not
against them being dominated by you two. I personally don’t think they will
fall for your blackmail. All four are pretty sharp. If you succeed, more power
to you and I won’t interfere."
   Tim spoke first. "Ok we can deal with that, but you do know you will be
involved a little bit since you will know what’s going on. When it’s all said
and done they will know that you knew we were doing this from the beginning."
   I looked at the two of them and nodded.
   "Alright then we’ll keep them in the dark about you. Plus we don’t want them
to lose their jobs. We’re just going to make them think they could if they
don’t do as we want. I hope they don’t call our bluff. I think all three of us
could have some fun. So one more time are you in or are you out?" asked a
smiling Dave.
   "As long as you guarantee no one loses their job or gets into trouble yeah.
I’m just hoping they won’t find out I’m involved with the blackmailing. My mom
would kill me."
   "That’s probably the best, but you need to be prepared in case they do. Just
so you know we’re going to have to be assholes to make this work. I know you
couldn’t do that with your mom."
   It was almost an hour after Dave talked with the women before the first text
came in. It was Jane. Dave set up Monday for the meeting to discuss the deal
Dave had for them. After he set up the meeting, he told us he would make sure
she wouldn’t tell the others until he had met with all of them. He didn’t want
them to know what they discussed. Next text was Kay she got Tuesday, Jane
ended up with Wednesday, and after about two hours my mom sent him a text and
got Thursday. It was decided that I wouldn’t be at home when Dave met mom.
   "Hey, since I’m not going to be there how will I know what has been decided?"
I asked Dave and Tim.
   Dave thought about it for a moment then said, "we’re going to talk about the
same things with each of them. What happens is up to each one. You’ll need to
set up spy cameras in your living room with a live feed to the internet. If
you want to watch then you will need to be at some other location with
internet access. That way you can watch what happens with your mom. Tim is
going to be our camera man for all the meetings.
   You can view them after we are done. As you view the one with your mom you can
text us if you want some input as it goes along. Only problem is we might not
be able to answer your text if we’re busy and no guarantee we will do as you
ask."
   We talked about it some more and came up with a plan where I could review the
first three meetings and watch my mom’s meeting. I would come to Dave’s after
work and view what they recorded each night. Then I was going to go to the
mall and sit in my car and watch my mom’s meeting remotely and text input to
them.
   When I got home that night from Dave’s house, Mom jumped right in asking
questions about Dave and when was the last time I had seen him. She wanted to
see my phone. I’m glad I had deleted his texts from earlier today.
   She never said anything to me about the pictures, but she did ask if she was
drugged during the party. I just told her that she and her friends drank about
eight bottles of wine between them and that is probably why what happened,
happened.
   She then asked me if I would be home on Thursday. I lied, telling her I was
scheduled to work all day. I hated to be lying, but I had to see if she would
fall for Dave’s and Tim’s blackmail. If she did then I would have to decide
what to do.* * *
   It took me a couple days to find cameras to install. I finally asked around at
work and one of the guys had some that he used to keep an eye on his kids but
didn’t need them any longer. He didn’t ask why I needed them and sold them to
me at a very low price. He also gave me a tablet which already had the cameras
programmed. It cost me a week’s pay, but I hoped it was worth it.
   He showed how to set them up and use them. The program would save whatever was
recorded, and I could watch them at any time if for some reason I couldn’t
watch live.
   It was Wednesday before I got a chance to place the cameras. They were very
small with an adhesive back so I was able to stick them on almost any surface
and no one would notice them. They had lithium batteries and were
motion-activated. I waited for mom to go to the store and got busy setting
them up. I placed one on a book in our bookcase. It gave a view of the couch.
The next one was behind the couch stuck to a picture on the wall. The third
was on the smoke detector on the ceiling. I tested them to make sure they
worked and that the room was completely covered.
   Dave and Tim did go visit Sue, Kay, and Jane, but I didn’t get a chance to
watch the videos that they had taken. I was called into work every evening.
Dave told me they basically were all the same.
   It was Thursday and I still didn’t have the foggiest idea where I was going
and watch the meeting. I decided not to go to the mall because there was too
many people, plus I didn’t know what Dave and Tim’s plans were.
   I finally found a place at one of the coffee shops on the other side of town.
I connected to their public Wi-Fi and sat in a booth, drinking coffee. I
checked my connection, and everything was working perfectly.
   I watched through the app on the tablet. Mom was at the dining room table just
before Dave was to arrive. She looked nervous as she sat there wringing her
hands. Mom jumped when the doorbell rang. I watched as she slowly stood and
walked to the door to answer it. A couple seconds later mom walked in the
living room followed by Dave and Tim. I could see that they had smug confident
look as they entered.
   Mom started the conversation. "When did you two become such assholes?"
   Neither one said a word they just pushed past her and walked calmly into the
living room.
   "Mrs. May you might want to sit," Dave said.
   "Fuck you and you too, Tim. No one comes into my home telling me what to do!"
Mom said loudly.
   They just smiled at her.
   She continued her attack. "You have a lot of gall! I should call the police."
   They both snickered and Dave calmly replied, "do what you think is best, but
they might arrest you after they see the pictures of you with two of your
students."
   Mom didn’t speak, she just stared at them.
   Dave finally spoke. "Listen bitch your ass belongs to us and you will do as
you’re told. As much as we like you, you’re also a hot sexy MILF."
   I think that was the first time I ever saw my mom look scared, but she was
keeping it together. In a controlled voice she said, "What makes you think you
two shit heads are going to tell me what to do?"
   "First you already saw the videos and pictures we have. We’ll just make sure
the school board and the cops get a copy also and while we’re at it, Good Old
Hubby might like to see what happened at the party. Don’t forget Mike was
there, you can only hope he will keep his mouth shut."
   "You guys drugged us."
   "Did we now? I don’t think we did and if you have any proof then show us.
   "Mom was mad but she was just looking at Dave and Tim. Tim had pulled out his
phone and was videoing what was going on.
   "I can’t lose my job or go to jail," mom said quietly.
   Tim said, "Well that’s up to you bitch. You do what we want and nobody will
find out. If not, well…"
   "I’m the mother of your best friend and I’m married you little prick," mom
said.
   With a smirk on his face, Tim replied, "I don’t give a shit if your married or
Mike’s mom. From now on we own you. You’ll do whatever we tell you. You and
your friend’s asses belong to us."
   "I don’t know why you’re doing this or when you two became such cruel
assholes."
   Dave and Tim acted like they didn’t hear her, and Dave asked, "So bitch are
you going to be a good slut and obey our wishes or lose your job? Maybe even
go to prison?"
   Mom didn’t say a word she just looked at them.
   Dave snarled, "I asked you a question you fucking bitch!"
   She started to plead, "Please, you can’t do this to me. Please Dave, Tim I’ve
known you two since you were in grade school. You are good boys, please don’t
do this."
   "I’m done talking. I’ve been thinking of this since the party. You just became
Tim’s and my slut. You need to realize that you have no choice bitch."
   Dave was now glaring at her, since mom didn’t say anything he continued, "Or
would you rather we just drop these copies off to the school board."
   Mom just stood there looking at Dave then Tim. I don’t know what she was
thinking, but she wasn’t saying anything.
   In a confident voice Dave took control. "We’re done talking bitch. No more
discussing, you know your options. Now take your damn clothes off now or face
the music!"
   Mom stood there staring at Dave as the seconds passed. I could tell she was
thinking about what she should do. She had a look of fear in her face as Dave
just glared at her while Tim continued to film the entire episode.
   Dave broke the awkward silence when he laughed an evil laugh and said, "Hey
bitch, you are our slut now and you know it. I repeat you’re my slut. I know
in your mind it’s demeaning. You’ll get over it with time and you and your
friends might even grow to like it."
   "Dave, I think we should explain the rules. Just like she gave us to follow,"
Tim said laughing.
   "We might have to embarrass her and her friends from time to time to make sure
they know whose boss," Dave said.
   He moved a little closer to her, invading her space and putting more fear into
her. He made sure to reach out and squeeze her ass. It let her know that he
can and will do whatever he wanted with her.
   In one last effort mom said, "Please don’t make me do this."
   Dave ignored her pleas for a moment shaking his head, "Just do as your told
bitch."
   With tears in her eyes she whispered, "Yes Dave."
   I was surprised how easy it was to break her. She was going to surrender to
their will. I thought she would of have fought more, screamed, yelled, or
called their bluff. But I watched as her shoulders slumped and could see the
defeat in her eyes. I should have stopped it right there, but I didn’t.
   I just watched as my two best friends were about to enslave my mom. I was just
as bad as they were, but damn my cock was hard as a rock now and nothing
happened yet. My best two friends will be dominating my mom and her friends. I
was struck by the realization that she has accepted the fact that she was
going to do as they wanted.
   My attention was brought back to the screen when I heard Dave quietly issue
orders.
   "It’s time to learn your place and take your clothes off. Let’s start with
your blouse. Oh and make sure your looking at the camera as you do it. Just so
you know we will be videoing everything."
   Mom started to speak but didn’t. Instead she started to unbutton her blouse.
Her hands were shaking bad as she had trouble unbuttoning it.
   As she reached the last exposed button, she pulled her blouse out of her
waistband and unbuttoned the final button. As the last button was released her
blouse fell open exposing her bra. I had never seen mom look so ashamed.
   She couldn’t even look at either Dave or Tim in the eyes. She kept her head
lowered looking at the floor. I would have thought that mom wouldn’t have been
as embarrassed as this isn’t the first time she taken her clothes off in front
of Dave and Tim. Maybe because she don’t remember the last time because she
was drugged. Or this time it was being done involuntarily. Who knows?
   She pulled her blouse off letting it drop to the floor. She then removed her
bra dropping it next to her blouse. Next were her jeans and panties. She was
now naked in front of two of her students unable to refuse anything they
demanded.
   As she stood there in front of these two and yelled "THIS IS WRONG! THIS IS SO
FUCKING WRONG!!"
   Dave laughed. "Well maybe but it is what it is."
   When she was finished Dave pushed her over to the couch. "We’ll keep this
between us only if you promise to be our good girl from now on."
   "What do you mean promise? I don’t want to do this…"
   Before she could get another word out of her mouth Dave pulled her hair so
hard you could see her eyes open wide. As he pulls her hair up she quickly
rose to a standing position.
   Dave with a mean look said "Remember the pictures we have of you enjoying
yourself at the party, fucking your students, and anyone else there. Now, it
sure would be hell to pay if the wrong person got to see them. If you remember
you sure weren’t complaining."
   With that, he roughly turns her around to face Tim and giving her ass a firm
smack. "Now tell us who your cunt belongs to," he demanded.
   Mom didn’t speak quickly enough as he gave her a very hard smack on the side
of her face. "Say it now, or the videos and pictures will be emailed out
before we leave."
   Mom’s face turned red and her expression showed fear. She mumbled, "I belong
to you guys."
   Dave chuckled and he gloated. "Hell, just remember none of this will ever get
out. All you just have to do is what you’re told."
   She just looked up at them and in defeat asked "What will I have to do?"
   Dave with a commanding voice said, "You’ll find out. Just remember to keep us
happy. Here are some rules that you need to follow:
   One - When one of us tells you to move, you move, no slow shit!
   Two - Your pussy will always be shaved and will never have any stubble.
   Three - You will always answer any text we send you or answer any phone calls
from us.
   Four - If we tell you we want to see you. You come running. If you can’t you
better have a good reason and we will let you know if it’s a good reason.
   Five - You will always call us sir no matter who’s around.
   Six - You will never wear a bra or panties without permission.
   Seven - You must have permission to get a haircut or style.
   Do you understand the rules, slut?" Dave asked.
   She answered, "Yes."
   Tim slapped her hard. "You already forgot rule number 5 bitch!"
   "Sorry sir. I understand the rules sir."
   "Now give Tim your cell phone. He’s going to download all of your contacts. If
you mess up it gives us the option to send a copy of your party fun to your
family and friends."
   Mom gets her phone and hands it to Tim.
   Dave continued. "You’re a rude, obnoxious, inconsiderate, self-centered bitch
who dresses like a nun!" Dave yelled at her. She didn’t say a word. Dave went
on. "We’re going to go through your closet and you’re going to start dressing
the way we want to see you. Understand Bitch?!"
   In a low submissive voice mom said, "Yes sir."
   Dave then pushed her down to the floor. "Crawl to your room bitch," Dave
barked.
   Mom started crawling, damn she looked so sexy with her boobs hanging down and
swaying as she crawled out of the living room and out of sight of my cameras.* * *
   The next day I went over to Dave’s and watched the other videos. All three
gave in just like mom. I watched as Dave and Tim adjusted each woman’s
wardrobe and made sure they all would be dressing a lot sexier.
   I asked him, "Ok, now that you got the four sluts under your control, what are
you going to do with them?"
   Dave looked at me and smiled. "What the hell do you think we’re going to do.
We’re going to fuck them, that’s what."
   "No, I mean after you fuck them. Is that it?" I asked, partially because I
wanted to protect mom, but mainly because I wanted to fuck Sue, Jane, and Kay.
If I could convince Dave and Tim to order them to fuck me, I could plead
ignorance and still be viewed as not part of the plan.
   "Damn I really haven’t thought that far ahead. You have any ideas?" Dave told
me chuckling.
   I didn’t believe a word he said. "Well, you have a lot of power over them. I
mean you can make them do just about anything you want, short of having them
run around the neighborhood naked. I don’t want to be involved with mom, but
I’d love to have another turn with the others. I would like to thinkwe can
find a way for that to happen and I still stay in the background at least for
now. Damn, we need to get Tim and come up with a game plan," I finished.
   "I’ll tell you this Tim and I are definitely going to have some fun. You could
too, but I understand you wanting to stay in the background for now," Dave
said laughing.
   We called Tim and he came right over and with a very serious look on his face,
he said, "Look guys we have a lot of power over these sluts right now and it
requires constant attention."
   "Your right! We cannot let them get too comfortable in their new situation
with us. We’re going to have to keep them on edge mentally and emotionally. We
got to keep them on their toes never knowing what we might do," Dave added.
   With that we tried to figure out what we were going to do next.* * *
   For the next couple days everything seemed normal, but I slowly started to
notice that mom and her friends were dressing different. They weren’t dressing
like sluts or anything like that. They started wearing tight yoga pants so
tight they were almost transparent with tight tops. It was obvious that they
weren’t wearing a bra, plus you could tell they didn’t have any panties on.
   A day or so later, when they weren’t wearing yoga pants, they had on short
skirts with tight tops, or dresses that were form fitting. They weren’t skin
tight, but they definitely showed off their curves. If they wore jean or
shorts, they were also very tight.
   When I went to the mall with mom I notice she was getting a lot more attention
from men. Plus I know Dave and Tim were sending her texts and calling her
often everyday. There weren’t so many that someone really would notice but I
guess I did because I was keeping an eye on her actions. Dad seems to enjoy
the change in her clothing and marked it off as if she was going through a
midlife crisis.
   I still had my cameras up and running at my house. I hadn’t checked on them
lately. I decided to check and went into my room to see what was recorded.
Most of what I saw was just normal life happening. Then up came yesterday’s
footage from around noon. Dave and Tim were at my house. They were sitting on
the couch in the living room.
   I watched as the women appeared crawling from the kitchen towards the couch.
All four were naked, their tits swinging from side to side. God, they looked
so sexy. When they got in front of Dave and Tim, they lined up facing them.
They each knelt ass to ankles, their arms to their sides. I thought it looked
like they have done this many times, since they didn’t need much instruction.
   "Listen sluts, get those hands behind your backs, and push those tits out."
Dave barked. All four quickly moved their hands and did as they were told not
wanting to be punished. Dave seem to be getting them trained well.
   Dave stood and stepped up. He stood directly in front of all four of them.
With one hand, he grabbed each firmly under their chins as he would walk and
stop in front of each one. With his hand he roughly played with their boobs,
making sure he pinched and twisted them. I could hear each one moan as he
worked them over. I could see the smirk on his face as he humiliated each one.
   Dave looking back at Tim and then back at the MILFs, he said, "Let’s see which
one of you can cum first. Lay back spread those legs and play with your
pussies for us."
   Tim had a big smile on his face.
   The women were slow to move. Dave walked behind them, smacking each hard on
the back of their heads. This got them moving. They spread their legs and
started playing with their cunts. First massaging their clits then finger
fucking themselves.
   Tim yells out, "That’s it. Show us who can get the wettest!!"
   Dave kneels down next to Sue. "Come on, Sue, put some effort into it. You
don’t want to be the loser, do you?"
   She whimpered, then fucked herself faster.
   "Hey Dave, I have an idea. Whoever is the loser we get to spank," Tim said.
   "I like that idea. Ok bitches, you heard the man. Get busy."
   Damn, here I was in my room watching my mom and her friends masturbate in
front of two of my friends. I was mesmerized by the action I was watching. My
cock was getting hard as I took it out so that I could also masturbate.
   I was watching Sue as she slid her fingers over her pussy lips. Her thumb was
rubbing her clit fast and hard. In time, she was shoving three fingers into
her cunt. As she was finger fucking herself, her body joined in as her hips
began to rotate. She was now loudly moaning, and her hips started to hump the
air and her stomach convulsed. I think the entire world could hear her screams
when she had a massive orgasm.
   I returned to watching my own mom when I heard her starting to whimper loudly.
She climaxed. I never thought that I would every see my mom masturbate, let
alone come. The other two women quickly followed with their own orgasms with
Kay being last.
   "Oh yeah!" Tim yelled out.
   Dave shouted out, "Hell yeah!"
   "I think we have a winner, Sue and the loser, Kay," Tim added.
   As Dave looked at the women he was deep thought[. With a smile, he said, "I
think Tim is right. Kay get over here and bend over the couch’s arm. It’s time
to receive your spanking."
   "Fuck you assholes! Not going to happen," Kay shouts out.
   Dave quickly moved over to Kay, grabbing her by the hair and pulling her over
to the couch. "Look bitch you either bend over this arm or we are going to
send hubby some pictures!!"
   Kay looked at Dave then over at the other women like she was hoping they would
all unite against these two asshole. No one moved or said a word to help her.
   When no one joined her, she dropped her head and said. "Ok Sir, ok I’ll do
it." Her entire body said defeat as she bent over the arm of the couch and
grabbed the cushion in front of her.
   "Good girl." Dave said, and rubbed her ass checks. Kay’s eyes were tightly
closed, and she squealed when he began to spank her.* * *
   From then on, I would check and recheck the video log to see if anything else
happen in the house every few days. If anything was going on it had to be
happening elsewhere.
   One day I heard mom answering the door. I had come home earlier when mom was
out, and she didn’t know I was home. For some reason, I jumped up to see who
it was. I slipped down the hall and peeked around the corner. I had just
arrived when I see Dave walk in alone.
   I listened intently and heard mom talking to Dave.
   "Sir! Why are you here? Where is Tim?"
   "Get on your knees bitch" Dave scowled.
   "I don’t think so, asshole."
   "Kathy, if you think you’re going to reject your position now, just remember
the pictures. Now get down on your knees," Dave said very calmly.
   She was hesitating, but finally sunk to her knees. Dave started unbuckling his
pants. He pulled out his cock and pushed it in her face. She took a moment
before opening up and putting it in her mouth. She bobbed slowly up and down
Dave’s cock.
   "Damn, that feels good Kathy. You have gotten very good at sucking cocks,"
Dave said with a smile.
   He then grabbed her head, shoving his cock as far as it would go into her
mouth. She gagged at first as he face-fucked her. After a few minutes of
furiously fucking her face, he ejaculated in her mouth. I watched in shocked
as she swallowed down his cum and continued sucking until she had sucked him
dry.
   As Dave pulled his softening cock from between her lips, he said, "Now that
you know your place and what is expected of you, it’ll get easier."
   "Sir, I’ll do what you and Tim want. Just don’t let my husband know or let
Mike know what your making me do."
   Dave smiled at her as he put his cock away and left.
   Chapter Two
   I was still watching mom. As Dave left, she was still kneeling on the living
room floor. She looked like she was in shock from what just happened but I
couldn’t help but notice a small smile came across her face. She looked down
at her top and saw it was covered with spit and cum. I watched as it looked
like she almost unconsciously let her hand drift between her legs. Her fingers
followed her camel toe. I saw the large wet spot on her yoga pants as she
touched herself. She stood and walked to her room I’m assuming to change
before dad got home.
   A few days later I was checking the spy camera video and noticed mom and her
friends were again sitting in the living room. I turned up the volume to
listen in. Mom was telling her friends about what Dave did to her just a few
days ago.
   When she finished telling them what happen she added, "he told me that it will
get easier being used and being his slave." All of the girls told her he told
them the same thing.
   "It all started at Dave’s birthday party. We should have told Jake that we
didn’t want or need his damn wine," Mom said looking at Sue.
   "Hindsight is always 20/20 but we did take it and drink it," Kay said.
   "I think it was laced with drugs for us doing what we did, but we can’t prove
it," added Sue.
   "Damn I stripped in front of my son and his friends who are blackmailing us
now," Mom said.
   "At least your son isn’t part on the blackmailing," Jane added.
   "Well just the thought of Mike seeing me naked and fucking his friends and
everyone else who was there that night humiliates the hell out of me every
time I think about it. I have to admit that it also arouses me some," my mom
said.
   "What the fuck are you talking about Kathy?" asked Jane.
   "It humiliates me because what proper mom would let her son watch her get
naked and fuck his best friends. I think I get aroused because it was so
wrong, maybe that’s because it’s so taboo!" Mom explained.
   "I hated it when Dave and Tim showed up with those damn pictures and videos.
It left us no other choice but to do as they wanted," Kay said. All the women
nodded their heads in agreement.
   "I don’t mind dressing sexier, even Jack seems to enjoy it. Going without a
bra and panties was difficult at first but I’m used to it now. I wanted to
yell at Mike so bad but I don’t think he knew about what was going to happen
at the party. Plus, I don’t want to piss him off and he ends up telling his
dad what happened," Mom said.
   "I don’t know about you ladies but all in all I’m enjoying myself. I’m getting
addicted to those big ass cocks of Dave and Tim, and don’t you three lie to
me. I know you all are enjoying their big cocks as well," said Sue.
   All three women gasped at Sue’s comment but again nodded their heads in
agreement.
   With that the women left the view of the camera and I needed to get to work,
so I hoped I could catch them talking again later.
   Over the next couple weeks, I made it a point to try and get a hold of Dave or
Tim, but neither one would take my calls or answer my texts. Finally, I got
some time off from work and waited outside of Dave’s home to confront him.
While I sat there, I was thinking about my mom. I haven’t really noticed
anything different going on with her other than the way she was now dressing.
Actually, when I thought about it, there were a few more recent differences.
   On Tuesday or Wednesday she and one of her friends went out for the evening,
but it wasn’t enough for me to think they were doing anything. Upon
reconsideration, I came to realize that must have been when Dave and Tim were
fucking them. They must be fucking two on one night and the other two the next
night. Just then I saw Dave drive into his driveway.
   Jumping out of my car and heading towards Dave as he got out of his, I yelled,
"hey, we need to talk!!"
   Dave stopped and looked at me, with a smile on his face. "I was wondering when
you would show up."
   "Why haven’t you taken my calls or answered any of my texts?" I asked.
   "Right to the point."
   "Well, you were supposed to keep me in the loop."
   "Your right I was, but there’s nothing big to report to you. I’m sure you’ve
figured out we’ve been fucking them weekly. Tim and I have also given them a
few tasks to do and sometimes we might have a contest between them with the
loser getting spanked."
   "What tasks? What kind of contest?"
   "Well, nothing for you to worry about. You wanted to stay in the background
and we have kept you there. If you want to start being involved, well that’s
up to you, but you can’t have it both ways."
   "No, you’re right. I don’t want mom to find out that I know what’s going on.
But you were to keep me informed and you’re not."
   "I didn’t think there was anything to inform you about. Yes, we are fucking
them. Two on Tuesday night and two on Wednesday night. We give them a task on
Sunday and they have to have it completed by Thursday night. Sometimes it’s a
group task but most of the time it’s an individual task. If we have a contest
it’s during a week when Tim and I can get off work. That’s about it."
   "So, what are the tasks?"
   "I’m not going to tell you unless you want to be more involved."
   "Ok, ok I get it. By the way do you have any blank red flash drives? I want
one if you do."
   "Blank, yes I have one. What are you going to do with it?"
   "I’m going to put it on my desk in my room, to see how long it takes mom to
find it then see what she says."
   Dave, laughing, handed me a blank red flash drive. "I like that idea."
   "I figured you would."
   "Just a thought. You still have a crush on Sue? I have an idea to let you have
some fun, but I’ll let you know after I talk it over with Tim."* * *
   After that Dave started to keep me more informed. He sent me one text letting
me know that my mom’s bottom might be a little sore after she had lost a task.
He went on and explained that they had the sluts do a striptease show and my
mom had lost.
   That evening she did mention she had an issue with her bottom being a bit
sore. When my dad asked why, she told him she and the girls had a contest of
who could do the best striptease and she lost.
   She went on and explained that the girls each took a turn spanking her. I
couldn’t believe my dad bought the story. He didn’t even question why mom even
participated in such a contest or why spanking was the penalty. She then
informed him that she and her friends had joined a class which taught them how
to do an erotic strip tease. She figured he would enjoy it. I guess heliked
the idea he had a big smile on his face when she told him about it.* * *
   A few days later I checked the video feed and found footage of the ladies
again talking. I decided to listen in because this was the only way I was
getting any information.
   Mom said, "Jane and I have to go to Dave’s house again this Tuesday. I just
don’t like the way they make us humiliate ourselves before they fuck us."
   "Yeah Sue and I have to go on Wednesday. Last week we had to make out with
each other until they were happy with the way we were kissing," Kay said.
   "They are so demanding and abusive," Mom said, then lowered her head and
added, "but the humiliation does make me very horny." She lifted her head and
looked around at the other women. "As much as I hate to admit it, those huge
cocks make me have more orgasms then I ever had with Jack," she admitted.
"They are more intense, and those young men can give me multiple climaxes just
in one session."
   Sue sighed knowingly. "God, you’re right. As degrading as it is, those big ass
cocks they have made me forget all the shit they put us through."
   Jane’s face was deep red when she admitted, "I agree I want to hate what
they’re doing to us, but when they shove their cocks so deep into me, I can’t
stop climaxing."
   "God, I hope they keep their word keeping everything a secret. But every time
we’re with them they record every minute. The longer this goes on the harder
it is going to be to escape their hold on us," Kay said.
   "Damn I think it is already too late," Jane added.
   "I was so relieved when Jack accepted my weak excuse of losing the bet and
getting my ass spanked. He however does enjoy the way I’m dressing now. I even
caught Mike looking at me with a damn boner," Mom said.
   All the ladies laughed and agreed their husbands all are enjoying the new way
they were dressing now. With that they departed.* * *
   I kept checking the video feed every day. I was speed-reviewing the latest
recording when I noticed the women appear, nude, and got into a line. I slowed
down the feed as Dave and Tim entered the frame.
   Dave began yelling angrily. "Damn you bitches, when I tell you to be some
where you better be there! You fucked up this time and pissed me off! I guess
we have been too nice to you sluts! Now you get to wear these for the rest of
the day!" He was brandishing a handful of nipple clamps.
   "No sir, not those!" Jane howled. She had the largest tits of the group by
far. Sheer gravity meant that her clamps would pull the most, given her ample
breast weight.
   But her protests were in vain. Dave crossed to her and applied the clamps to
her first. She screamed as Dave clipped them on and gave the chain connecting
the two clamps a hard pull making sure they were tight and not going to fall
off. Jane’s heavy tits wobbled in response.
   "Unbelievable," I said to myself.
   It then occurred to me that Dave told me that he and Tim would have to be
assholes. They had to make sure the sluts knew their place. I looked closer at
the clamps. They were clover clamps, the ones that tighten when you pull on
them. I watched as he walked down the line and clipped the nipple clamps on
each woman’s nipple. He harshly gave each a good tug as he finished with each
one. The yelps and gasps were very erotic as they all had trouble handling the
pain.
   When Dave came to Kay she screamed, "I DON"T THINK SO YOU BASTARD!!"
   Dave moved so fast. In a blur, he grabbed her by the hair and threw her onto
the hard wood floor.
   "You old fucking bitch, I’m in charge here, not you!" he shouted with a wild
look in his eyes. He pushed Kay down on all fours, then, with his foot on her
head, forced her face to the floor.
   She whimpered weakly, naked in the face-down-ass-up position on the floor. Kay
felt powerless with Dave’s foot on her head.
   Tim angrily barked out orders. "Everyone else, on your knees now! And put your
hands behind your backs."
   The other three women moved quickly and watched Dave and Kay their eyes wide
in fear.
   Dave leaned down and said something softly to Kay, which I couldn’t hear.
Kay’s butt was high in the air and from the camera angle, I got a good look at
her pussy. It was puffy and red and glistening. Dave was clearly dominating
her, and she seemed to be getting more aroused because of it.
   "On your back cunt!" he yelled and moved his foot. Kay didn’t hesitate and
quickly rolled over. After she was on her back looking up at Dave, he put his
foot on her chest. "Are you going to be a good girl?" he barked.
   "Yes sir please don’t hurt me," Kay answered.
   I noticed Dave didn’t look angry at all but had a glint of amusement on his
face now. In a controlled voice, he said, "beg me bitch. Let the others know
who’s the boss."
   Kay whimpered but didn’t say a word. Dave continued, "I gave you a chance to
obey by being a nice guy." He growled as he glanced down at Kay and smiled.
"You caused this by being defiant."
   I watched as he pulled his arm back and brought his hand down across Kay’s
tits hard. A red mark appeared almost immediately. Kay sucked in a huge breath
and I winced expectantly. It reminded me of a little kid about to cry his
brains out. Sure enough, she let out a screech that I was sure the neighbors
heard.
   Dave just looked down and said, "now beg."
   "Please sir I’ll do whatever you want. I’m sorry," Kay was pleading.
   Dave smiled. "Now is that what you call begging?"
   "Yes sir. I’m begging you to let me up. I’ll do whatever you want. I’ll be a
good slut for you," Kay begged.
   Dave’s arm rose and fell. He smack her tits hard again and again. Kay cried
out sharply with each blow. Dave stepped back, taking his foot off of her. She
was crying hard and holding her now red tits.
   Dave looked at the other women with renewed confidence.
   "I hope I haven’t been too nice to you all for you to think you can challenge
me. I know you don’t like being controlled by someone half your age, and one
of your students no less. But Tim and I are in control of you. If you don’t
understand that by now, you fucking sluts sure will by the time we are done
with you.
   That’s right you’re our sluts. And it looks like I’m going to have to start
taking things away from you to enforce it. You should have of obeyed while I
was a nice guy. Just fuck up again and see how rough things will get for you."
   Kay was whimpering gently, sitting bare-assed on the floor naked, her arms
crossed over her stinging tits. Dave looked back at her. "Is that begging I
hear."
   "Yes sir I’m begging for your forgiveness. I’ll do whatever you want from now
on," Kay said.
   Dave approached her, grabbing her by the shoulders and made her stand.
   "Get back in line. And the rest of you stand up straight. I want you to stick
those tits out, nice and proud," he said harshly.
   Kay stood, shoulders hunched and cried softly. Dave attached the clamps to her
stiff nipples. After making sure her clamps were secured, he slapped her tits
hard again making her gasp and her knees slightly buckle.
   Dave and Tim led them from the living room. They must have gone into the
basement. I needed to get more cameras to place down there.* * *
   I knew I need more cameras, but the guy at work had sold me the first bunch
didn’t have any more. He referred me to where he bought his and I purchased
several more, ensuring that I could also surveil the basement.
   Returning home from the store, I saw Sue was there, chatting with Mom. I
offered a quick hello as I moved out of site to a place within earshot. I
eavesdropped as quietly as I could.
   "That bastard wants me to seduce and fuck Mike," Sue told my mom.
   "Fuck I hate that. I was hoping he wouldn’t be involved. I want to tell you
not to do it, but I know you can’t. I don’t think it would take much to seduce
him. Just grab his hand and take him to his room. When do you have to complete
this task?" Mom asked.
   "In the next few days. You’re not going to get pissed, are you?"
   "Well I don’t like the idea, but didn’t you already fuck him at the party?
Plus, I don’t think you can get out of it. You saw what he did to Kay," Mom
said.
   "You’re right I really don’t have a choice," Sue said.
   "I wish Kay hadn’t resisted the other day. Now those assholes are making us
pay them 150 dollars a month." Mom said.
   I thought that was a pretty bold move by Dave. I continued listening, but the
rest of their conversation was just small talk.
   I decided I need to find out about the money from Dave. I texted Dave and he
told me that he would be splitting the money between us. I wasn’t happy that
mom was now paying money to keep their pictures from getting out. But I was
happy that I would be getting part of the money.* * *
   The next day Dad was at work and Mom was out. Being home alone, I decided to
set up the basement cameras. When I finished, I headed to my room to re-watch
some of the videos of the women in action.
   A few hours later I heard mom and her friends come into the house. I came out
of my room and heard the women down stairs talking. I descended, but before I
reached the bottom, Sue was next to me, grabbing me by the hand.
   "What’s going on, Mrs. Powers?" I asked, gasping with mock-surprise.
   Sue looked into my eyes and told me, "You and I are going up to your room to
play. Any problem, stud?"
   "No ma’am," was all I could say.
   As we entered my room, Sue started to take her dress off and cooed, "Well
young man, come over here and take me like you did at the party."
   "Yes, ma’am," I said, grinning widely.
   I closed the door to my room and got naked in a heartbeat. My cock was already
thickening. Sue watched, already naked and sitting on my bed. She seemed
reluctant, so I took matters into my own hands.
   Without asking, I reached down and grabbed both of her bare tits. She moaned
as I squeezed them, then I pinched her nipples. I watched her grimace, so I
began twisting them hard.
   I knew this was a gift from Dave and Tim and I was going to make sure I took
full advantage. I gripped her nipples hard pulling them upward. She moaned. I
wasn’t sure if she liked her boobs played with roughly, but I didn’t care.
After watching her, and the other ladies for that matter, fuck and suck any
cock presented to her like a slut, she wasn’t my mom’s friend or my teacher
now. She was a slut that wanted me to fuck her. I grabbed her hair and turned
her face up to me. My wagging cock was stiff as a board.
   "Open your mouth slut!" I barked and was smiling at her surprised expression.
   She gasped and opened her mouth. I carelessly stuffed my cock head in, driving
my shaft in as far as it would go. She squeezed her eyes shut and gagged
gently, but took it. I brought my other hand to her head and began stroking in
and out of her mouth.
   "Rub my balls too," I commanded.
   I felt a hand cup each of my nuts. I could feel her spit drooling down onto
them as she massaged them. I continued fucking her mouth like a pussy.
   "Fuck, that’s it," I sighed. I felt cum churning up my shaft as I watched my
submissive teacher struggle to deepthroat me. "Now squeeze them and moan for
me."
   I felt my cum burst from my tip even before she did as I told her. I blasted a
thick stream against the back of her throat. Her grip tightened on my balls
and I heard her moan before the cumshot registered. Her watery eyes closed and
she gagged on her own moan, though I held her down and made her take the rest
of my load.
   With my grip tight in her hair, I felt my cock stop pulsing. I was finished
coming, but as I released her, my stiff dick sprung free, still erect. I long
strand hung from the tip. I couldn’t tell if it was spit or cum, but it looked
sticky.
   "Gah," Sue said, sniffling. She wiped her mouth with the back of her hand and
sat back. Her tits, neck, and chin were shiny with spit and dotted with clumpy
cum.
   "Mike… I…" she looked up at my over my swaying dick. "I didn’t expect you
to go so quickly."
   I stooped to grab her bare feet, lifting them. "I couldn’t help myself when
you squeezed my balls," I explained, lifting and parting her legs. "It felt so
good."
   "Oh," Sue said, dazed, as she allowed me to lift her legs. The movement caused
her to lay back onto my bed.
   I moved over her, raising her legs farther. She let me manipulate her and I
bent them until her thighs pressed against her sticky tits. This brought my
erection over her pussy. I leaned over and let my balls mash against her slit.
She was soaking wet and ready.
   She looked at my stiff manhood over her stomach, then made eye contact. Her
eyes were open wide.
   "Are you just gonna…" she said softly.
   I pulled my hips back, let my cock head fall against her slit, tilted her
slightly more until I felt the hot opening line up with my shaft.
   We moaned simultaneously as I penetrated her in one stroke. Damn, she was wet.
   "Oh… Oh wow." She swallowed hard. "You put the whole thing in…" Her voice
was strained.
   I felt a slight smile stretch over my lips at her comment. Wasting no time, I
began pumping in and out of her, using the leverage on her legs to bend her
even more. This brought our hips together as I plunged in deep.
   Sue seemed to love this, and I felt her hands tighten over my bare ass cheeks.
I drove into her relentlessly, enjoying the sight of her rippling, mashed-up
tits. My cum smeared from her chest onto her thighs.
   "Ungh, ungh, ungh," Sue grunted, taking each of my deep thrusts. Her eyes
fluttered and she threw her head back. I felt her body tense below me.
   Then she lifted her head and moaned loudly, looking into my eyes. I wondered
if Mom heard her. Sue’s face was red and I saw a vein appear on her forehead.
She was climaxing.
   Her tight cunt fluttered around my pounding shaft and I again felt my balls
tighten. I slammed into her, feeling my balls crash against her warm anus.
   "Ah fuck," I said flatly, holding myself deep.
   I felt my cock surge and cum erupted into my mom’s friend. I held her by the
backs of her knees as I unloaded deep inside her.
   I came, panting, and she took it all, grunting quietly. I pumped my second
load into her with my mouth hanging open in ecstasy. When I finished, I
released her legs and withdrew. A stream of spunk flooded out of her, onto my
sheets. I made a mental note to have Mom wash them.
   We didn’t say a word as we dressed and walked back down stairs. My mom was
still around sitting on the couch. She looked at us and weakly smiled. Sue
didn’t say anything. She just left as fast as she could. I went back upstairs
without saying anything to mom. That’s when I notice the red flash drivewas
missing. I chuckled to myself.
   The next day I heard mom and Sue talking. I got as close as I could to listen
in and made sure they didn’t see me. "I found this on Mike’s desk yesterday."
   I couldn’t see what was happening, but I assumed Sue produced the red flash
drive and gave it to Mom.
   My prediction was confirmed when Mom yelled, "Mike get your ass down here
now!!"
   I didn’t want them to know I was listening, so I waited a minute or two before
I came down the stairs.
   "What wrong?" I feigned aloofness.
   "What’s this?" She asked with a concerned voice, showing me the red flash
drive.
   "I was wondering where that went. Dave gave it to me and told me I would like
what was on it. When I looked at it, it was blank."
   Calming down, Mom looked at Sue than back at me. "It is blank?"
   "That’s what I said. What a mess up joke. I’ll get him back. By the way why
are you so upset?"
   "Sue and I just thought it was something else."
   "Like what?" I asked.
   "Don’t worry about it," was her answer.
   "I’m going back to my room then if you don’t have anything else for me." I
turned and left them staring at me. I texted Dave and told him about it. He
had a good laugh also.* * *
   A few days later I was checking the video feed in the basement. Dave, Tim and
the women were all down there shooting pool. I turned up the volume and heard
Dave.
   "Ok today’s contest is to see who’s the best is at jumping rope."
   Kay answered excited, "Sir, now that sounds like fun."
   "One more thing, you’ll be doing it in the nude," Tim added.
   Dave spoke, smiling. "So, my sluts you know the drill. Strip and line up. Make
sure there is enough space between you."
   The four women took off their clothes and lined up. Our basement had a high
ceiling so jumping rope wasn’t going to be a problem. After the ladies were
all lined up Tim gave them all a jump rope.
   "Ok, you all get to warm up for a few minutes before we start the contest,"
Dave told them.
   Something about my best friends controlling these four teachers excited me to
no end. Especially my mom. I never thought of her as being submissive, but
here she was since that party following orders.
   Damn my cock got hard fast watching these four MILF practice jumping rope.
Just watching them jump. With each jump their boobs would bounce. From what I
saw of their rope jumping this contest wasn’t going to last long.
   "Enough warm up. Now bitches show some enthusiasm. Contest has started," Dave
barked.
   The four sluts started jumping rope as fast and best they could. I watched Sue
first. I was enjoying watching her jump up down. With each movement her boobs
swayed from side to side. I moved my eyes over to Kay watching her tits bounce
up and down. I was thinking she might give herself a black eye.
   Before I could move my eyes over to Jane she stopped. Dave shouted, "we have a
loser. That don’t mean to stop, keep jumping."
   "Yes sir!" the women yelled.
   Tim was filming the show as the women continued to jump. I couldn’t believe my
eyes as I watch the last three compete to see who the winner was going to be.
I had to stroke my cock as I watched the show.
   When it was over Kay was the winner. Dave commanded, "Jane lean on the pool
table and get your spanking."
   Jane moved over to the pool table. Dave continued, "Since Kay won she gets to
spank Jane first." Kay moved over to Jane and gives her ten easy spanks. Then
it was Sue’s turn and then my mom’s turn to spank Jane. They each gave Jane
ten easy spanks.
   Dave was next. He had a ping pong paddle and gave Jane 25 hard smacks. They
were powerful enough to make her thick ass ripple. Tim followed. He took the
paddle from Dave and also gave Jane 25 hard smacks, which also rippled her
butt. Her round cheeks looked like big red tomatoes from the back, where my
camera was positioned.
   "Sluts get dressed! Kay it’s your turn to seduce Mike and fuck him. Just like
Sue you better have a few pictures to prove it," Dave ordered.
   "Yes sir!" Kay answered.
   "And see what you can do to get more than two loads from him. Then we’ll have
to spank Sue."
   "Wow," I gasped, watching the footage. I wondered when Sue had the chance to
take pictures. It then occurred to me that my mom might have slipped in and
taken the pictures. I had been pretty distracted dumping two loads in Sue.
   A few days later Kay stopped by the house. Mom was in the kitchen and saw me
answering the door. She was standing before me in a short black skirt and a
white blouse. Damn she looked hot. Kay didn’t say anything as she headed to my
room with me right behind her. As we got to my room, I was imagining what it
was going to feel like ramming my cock into her.
   She brought me out of my thoughts. "Stop staring and get undressed." She was
removing her own clothes. I stripped as fast as I could wanting the fun to
begin.
   "Fuck you have nice tits and the longest nipples I’ve ever seen." I told her.
She grinned at me grabbing a hold of my head and pulling them into her tits.
After moving my head around her boobs, I sucked in one of those nipples and
sucked hard. I played and sucked on her nipples for a long time.
   When I was done playing with her tits, I pushed Kay hard onto the bed.
Grabbing her legs, I pushed them up into the air. I roughly shoved my cock
into her pussy. I fucked her hard and fast. Not showing any tenderness as we
fuck.
   Kay yells out, "I’m cumming!" I kept pounding her with no mercy.
   When I was almost finished, I pulled my cock out of her and moved up to her
head, standing over her. She was panting and her face was ruddy.
   "Mike, what are you-"
   Before she could finish her question, I grunted and shot a thick, creamy
stream over both eyes. She quickly shut them, shrieking.
   "Here you go, bitch," I hissed, adding a second stripe onto her face, then a
third. "Take it. Take my cum."
   She waved her hands in the air helplessly. "Oh god, Mike. Its burning my
eyes."
   I streamed more sticky spunk onto her upturned face. Her features were webbed
with my load and I shook my spent cock to splatter the rest of my jizz onto
her.
   "Don’t you dare wipe it off," I warned her. "You can push it out of your eyes,
but you will wear my cum until you are out of this house."
   Kay was obviously uncomfortable but did her best to clear my sperm from her
eyes. At least enough that she could see.
   "I wish you would have warned me about the facial," she said softly.
   I just laughed to myself as I got dressed. I watched her struggle to put her
clothes on with my sticky load teeming on her face. She gave me a dirty look
and then left my room. I followed her downstairs. My mom was sitting on the
couch. She looked at Kay seeing her cum soak face and weakly smiled. Kay just
gave mom a smile and didn’t say anything, she just left. I smiled at my mom
and went back upstairs. Laughing to myself knowing Kay didn’t get more then
one load from me.
   I’ve become jealous of Dave and Tim. I only got to fuck when Dave and Tim send
a slut to me, but they can fuck them whenever they wanted.
   The next day Jane showed up at the house. Again, when the doorbell rang my mom
didn’t answer it. There stood Jane. I was loving it. I felt more powerful at
that moment than I ever did in my life. She grabbed my hand and we went to my
room.
   This time after I closed my door I ordered, "Take off your clothes now!"
   I watch as she removed her clothes laying them nicely over the chair. As I
looked at her boobs I was thinking, "mine, all mine. I can do anything I
wanted with those tits."
   That day, my lust for this fine-ass teacher was more than I could bear. I
loved this feeling, now I know how Dave and Tim must feel controlling these
sluts. As I walked towards her, I notice her nipples were sticking out.
   "I’m going to enjoy fucking you Mrs. Hill. Your body is made to be fucked," I
whispered into her ear.
   I grabbed her by the jaw and made her look at me. "You want me to fuck you
don’t you."
   "Yes," she said. I knew she only said that because if she didn’t fuck me Dave
and Tim would punish her.
   I started kissing her neck causing her to whimper. Grabbing hold of her tits
squeezing them hard, I pinched her large nipples until she cried out with
pleasure. Jane took my cock into her hands, moving them up and down on my
hardness.
   "Lick it bitch," I told her. She started licking my cock. She opened her mouth
and took my cock into her mouth bobbing up and down on it, taking it all in.
   "That’s it bitch, suck it good," I said. She kept bobbing up and down.
   I grabbed her by the hair roughly, "I’m going to face fuck you." Holding her
by the hair, I inserted my cock into her mouth slowly at first moving it in
and out. I increased the speed and strength of my thrusts. I was now using her
mouth like a cunt, pounding her face and making her gag and choke. I fucked
her mouth brutally.
   I stopped face fucking her and said, "Time for you to lick my balls." Jane
removed her mouth from my rock-hard erection and lowered her face to my nut
sack.
   I spread my legs to give her easier access. My cock wobbled slightly as she
licked all over the surface of my scrotum.
   "Stroke me too. I know you can do it," I told her, grabbing her right wrist
and putting her hand on my shaft. She got the idea and was able to multi-task,
stroking and sucking on my testicles. It felt so good that I was moaning
continuously.
   Her mouth felt so good on my heavy balls. I felt them tighten as she managed
to get both nuts into her mouth. That sent me over the edge.
   I took a step back, yanking my nuts from her mouth. She sat back with a
confused look, still holding my cock. I put my hand over hers, pushed her back
slightly by her shoulder, and aimed my swollen dick at her chest.
   "Gah!" I grunted, expelling a huge wad. It splattered powerfully against her
neck and chin.
   "Oh, you are coming already," she observed. I felt her grip tighten on my
shaft and her other hand close over my balls.
   "Ungh!" I grunted again and a wide cum-cone burst from my tip, coating her
lower neck and the tops of her tits.
   "That’s it, give me that cum," Jane encouraged.
   I was able to stripe a few weaker spurts across her chest before I finished
with a sigh.
   "Nice load, Mike," she said, smiling up at me and jiggling my balls
pleasantly. Maybe Kay had told her how much my cum stung her eyes and she was
happy that I didn’t give her a facial.
   But her ball massage had my cock remaining as stiff as ever. I grabbed Jane by
her hair. "I’m not finished with you, bitch. Flip over onto your knees and put
your face on the bed."
   She seemed a bit dazed but followed my instructions.
   I positioned myself behind her, lining my cock with her slit. With a savage
thrust I pushed all the way into her. She moaned loudly reaching out grabbing
the bed sheets. I couldn’t believe it she was already cumming.
   She kept moaning loudly while she buried her face into the bed. She had
another intense orgasm as I slammed my cock in and out of her roughly. I was
now thoroughly fucking her like the slut she was. I figured with her loud
moaning and the sounds of us fucking, my mom must have been able to hear us.
   I kept fucking her hard and fast I felt myself getting close to cumming, "Oh
yes!" I shouted out as my cock exploded shooting my cum deep into Jane’s
pussy.
   We continue to fuck until my cock couldn’t get hard anymore. Only then did I
pull out and got off the bed, while Jane laid there in a daze. After she
recovered we got dressed. I gave her a big kiss before walking her back down
stairs.
   There was my mom as before sitting on the couch. She looked at Jane giving her
a knowing smile. Jane return the smile and walked out the front door. This
time I didn’t look at mom as I went back upstairs.
   I started hoping my mom would be next but I didn’t think it would happen
anytime soon. School was about to start, and I was wondering what Dave and Tim
had in mind for their sluts.
   Football practice started back up and my boss told me when football season was
over, if I wanted, I could keep my job. I’m not sure if Dave and Tim were
going to keep their jobs or not. I did notice that mom was out shopping
getting new clothes to wear. She was still going out on Tuesday night. Other
than that, things seemed to slow down.
   It was now the first day of school. Mom was already dressed and getting ready
to head out as I came down the stairs. She was wearing a nice dress which was
tighter than she would normally wear and a low neck-line. She was also wearing
a black choker with real small gold letters on the front bottom, D - T - S.
   "You look nice today mom. The choker makes your neck look bigger." I told her.
   "Thanks Mike."
   "What does the letters D - T - S stand for?" I asked her.
   "I don’t know. The girls and I saw the choker and thought they were cute. So,
we each got one" was her answer as she headed out the door.
   Since I had football practice after school, I took my own car. I didn’t think
much about the choker mom and her friends were wearing.
   At practice Dave chuckled. "What do you think about the chokers we got the
sluts?"
   "They look good on mom, I haven’t run into the others today. By the way, what
does D - T - S stand for?" I asked.
   "The D is for Dave of course, T is for Tim and The S is for sluts. We told
them we would leave them alone at school, but they had to wear the chokers,"
Dave told me. Before I could respond, the coach started running drills.
   The next day mom had on her choker again as she left for school. At lunch I
was sitting with Tim and Dave when I saw mom and her friends talking. Indeed,
they all had on a black choker with the small gold letters. Then I notice mom
didn’t have her choker on. Tim must of notice it also as he got Dave attention
pointing at mom. Dave and Tim then started whispering with each other.
   Dave leaned over to me. "Your dad home?"
   "Yeah" I answered.
   "Good, he still watches Thursday night football?"
   "You know damn well he does."
   "Tim and I will be over about the time the game starts. We’re going to need to
talk with your mom. You need to make sure he watches the game while we talk
with your mom," he told me.
   "Ok, what are you planning?
   "Don’t you worry about that." As Dave and Tim got up, mom was walking by us. I
heard Dave tell my mom, "we’re going to have to have a talk about your
attitude later tonight." Then they walked out of the lunchroom.
   When I got home from football practice, I made sure all the cameras were
operating and positioned properly. I didn’t want to miss anything watching
from my tablet. I was also excited to hear the audio through my earphones.
After dinner, dad and I went into the living room to watch the game. Mom
decided to do some laundry and went into the basement. The doorbell rang and I
answered the door. It was Tim and Dave.
   "Hey mike we need to talk with your mom about the assignment she gave us
today."
   "She’s down in the basement," I said.
   As they walked passed me Dave smiled. "Hey Mr. May. Hope you don’t mind but we
need to talk with Mrs. May about the assignment she gave us today."
   "Go ahead, she is in the basement. When you’re done you can watch the game,"
Dad answered.
   "Thanks," Tim said as Dave was already headed towards the basement.
   I sat down on the couch with my tablet, when dad looked at me, "Aren’t you
going with you friends?"
   "No, I’m not in their class. I would just be in the way. Plus, I have my own
homework that needs to be done," I told my dad.
   With my tablet on and earphones on I turn on the cameras in the basement. I
made sure dad couldn’t see what I had on the tablet. I saw mom over by the
washer loading it as Dave and Tim walked down the stairs. I don’t think mom
noticed them as Dave barked, "Hey Bitch I’m pissed off!!"
   Mom jumped. "Sir, you sacred me. Why are you pissed off?"
   Dave pushed mom up against the washer. "Bitch you took off your choker at
lunch!"
   "Oh that sir, it was bothering me so I took it off," Mom answered.
   Dave pushed her head down on top of the washer. "Jesus Christ you asshole stop
it," mom whispered.
   "I don’t remember you asking permission!" he shouted as he smacked her ass
hard.
   "Asshole what in the fuck are you trying to do to me? Jack and Mike are
upstairs," mom said still whispering.
   Dave grabbed mom’s hair pulling her head up where she was now standing
directly in front of him. He was staring intently into her eyes. "I don’t give
a shit if they are upstairs! Maybe I should just drag your ass up the stairs
and tell them what you’ve been up to."
   "No, no sir. Please be quite they’ll hear," mom was pleading.
   "Get on your knees," he said sternly.
   "No way sir! I told you Jack and Mike are just upstairs now get the fuck out
of here," mom said as she made a move to step away from him.
   Dave reached up and grabbed her by the throat, squeezing her neck until she
made a slight gasping sound. The look of fear and rage in her eyes caused my
own cock to swell.
   "I said get on your knees bitch," as he pushed downward on her neck.
   Ever so slowly mom knees began to bend her knees until they finally rested on
the basement floor. I saw mom’s face was beet-red. Dave released his grasp
around her neck, causing her to pant heavily as she tried to catch her breath.
   "Unzip my pants," he said as he reached out stroking her face. Mom blinked up
at him, not moving.
   I saw Dave glance toward the top of the stairs. It sounded like maybe he said
something softly, but as he turned back to mom, his hand was recoiled. I
watched him land a backhand slap over her face. She slumped over onto the
floor and Dave grabbed her by the face, pulling her back up onto her knees. He
pulled her face right to his bulge in his pants.
   "Oh God," mom moaned I’m not sure if it was in pain or pleasure.
   "I said unzip my pants." Dave’s eyes blazed in anger.
   "Please sir, my husband or Mike might walk down here," mom begged.
   Dave’s hand reeled back and landed another sharp slap. Mom’s head turned,
recoiling from the blow as her hair spun wildly.
   "You will unzip my pants right now or I will punish you like you have never
been punished before," he said as he reached down and grabbed a handful of
hair. He brought her face to his crotch again. It looked tented, as if he were
already hard inside his pants.
   "Oohhhhh," mom cried out as she again resisted.
   In a flash, Tim was next to Dave. Tim slapped mom hard, as Dave held her hair.
She couldn’t fall to the floor, instead taking the brunt of his blow.
   This seemed to do the trick. I heard mom sniffle, but she immediately reached
up and began to unzip Dave’s pants. A sly smile stretched over Dave’s face as
he took off his belt, dropping it to the floor. His pants sunk to the floor at
his feet, the tent in his underwear throbbed.
   "Now take off your top!" Dave ordered. As mom pulled off her top her boobs
bounced.
   Dave looked over at the dryer and saw some clothes pin sitting on top. He
grabbed two of them. He squeezed the ends which open the other end and held it
up in front of her face.
   "Sir, what are you going to do with them? Oh, God no, I don’t think so," mom
pleaded as she shook her head slightly while she stared at the open end of the
clothes pin.
   "Maybe next time you will follow your orders bitch," he said as he lowered the
pin towards her breasts.
   "Sir, please don’t," mom begged as she started struggle to free herself. Tim
came up to hold her in place with a big smile on his face.
   Dave’s smile broadened as he lowered the clothes pin towards her nipples. As
he placed the pins on her nipples, mom moaned.
   What the fuck is she enjoying this rough treatment and pretending not to? I
wondered.
   "Sir, please no," mom said.
   Dave and Tim smiled as she begged them to stop. She knew they had the upper
hand right now and for a moment, I saw fear in her eyes. This caused my cock
to swell even more. He pushed, pulled and twisted the clothes pins on her
nipples making sure it was going to stay on.
   "Ohhhhh Goddddd," mom cried out as she bit her lip to suppress her voice.
   "From now on you will do as you’re told and you won’t be punished anymore," he
said.
   Mom was now looking look up into Dave’s eyes as she knelt before him. "Now
pull my underwear down," he ordered.
   Mom reached up and placed her fingers around his waistband and slowly began to
pull the elastic over his hips. She had to stretch the garment over his large,
swollen cock. As soon as his dick head cleared the elastic, his erection
sprung up into her face.
   "Kiss my cock, bitch," he said as I watched her slowly lower her face to his
cock and kiss it. Her eyes never left his.
   I’m became so horny watching what was going on. I wanted to beat my meat, but
I was sitting on the couch with my dad just a few feet away from me.
   "Do you want to suck my cock?" Dave asked. I watched mom reluctantly nod her
headyes as her lips parted and her mouth began to open.
   I watched in amazement as she moved her mouth down farther and farther, taking
his cock into her throat. Her lips nestled into his pubic hair at the base as
she was able to take his entire length.
   "Stick out your tongue. I want you to lick my balls with my cock in your
throat." I heard a questioning moan from mom, to which Dave responded, "do it,
slut."
   The resolution on the camera wasn’t perfect, but I saw mom’s pink tongue jut
out along the bottom of Dave’s shaft. She shuddered and gagged hard, but I saw
her tongue stretch down to lap at his dangling sack.
   "Not bad," Tim said to Dave.
   "She’s learning," Dave replied. He turned his head down toward my kneeling
mom. "That feels good," he commented. He placed both hands on her head and she
gagged again but managed to keep him in her throat.
   "Now suck my cock," he said softly. He seemed to pull her head back and I
watched as she began bobbing her head back and forth along his length.
   Mom seemed to be producing a lot of saliva, as it soon hung from her chin in
strands and dripped down her chest. I could hear her moans, but she seemed to
be struggling to keep up with the pace Dave set with his hands on her head.
   "Suck it good," he ordered. Dave was driving his hips in and out, meeting the
bobbing motion of her head.
   "Mmmmmmggggghhhhhh," she grunted in response, her eyes wide.
   "Suck it good bitch," he whispered. He moved one hand to her chin with the
other on the back of her head. Her hands moved to his hips as he began to fuck
her mouth. I heard a wet -GLUCK- sound echo in the laundry room with each
thrust. Dave was using mom’s mouth and she took his deep thrusts submissively.
   "That’s it, that’s it, mmmm," he sighed.
   Suddenly, he took half a step back, moving the hand on the back of her head to
her forehead and his hand on her chin gripped his cock. He pushed her
forehead, turning her face upward toward himself.
   "Ugh!" he grunted. A huge pale wad leapt from his tip, snagging on her cheek,
just under her right eye.
   Mom recoiled slightly, but held steady with her mouth open, blinking
tentatively up at Dave. With another grunt, Dave tried to mirror his first
spurt, but this one hit her directly in the left eye.
   She winced as the cum blob hit her eye. "Ah," I heard her sigh.
   Then Dave was tilting her head back down and stuffing his cock into her open
mouth. He shook her head back and forth slightly, using her mouth to pump out
his load. I could hear it splattering on the tiled laundry room floor.
   "Swaaaaallow it," he sighed. "Swallow it all…" She gently smacked her palms
against his bare thighs, but let him fill her mouth and throat.
   Dave stopped pumping her face on his length, but still held her by the sides
of her head. She blinked up at him, trying to open both eyes, but her left one
was clumped with cum. I heard her swallow, breath through her nose, then
swallow again, nearly choking on the thick hot spunk.
   "I said all of it," Dave said harshly, removing his cock from her mouth.
   Mom sniffled like she had a cold but used her fingers to push the cum from her
face down into her mouth. Then she swallowed again. Dave still had one hand in
her hair and he used it to push her face down near the floor.
   "You spilled some, slut."
   I watched her lick at the white linoleum. I couldn’t see where the cum was,
but she slurped along the floor until Dave seemed satisfied, then she again
swallowed. It must have been a pretty big load.
   At that point, I noticed Tim was standing beside Dave, slightly obscured due
to the camera angle. He had his pants down and was stroking himself, watching.
Dave moved back and let Tim take his place in front of my kneeling mother.
   "Nooooo sir. Please. What are you going to do? Please, leave me alone, don’t
do this Tim!" Mom begged.
   Surely she must know he isn’t going to stop, I thought.Why would she still
fight?
   It was then I realized that this was all part of it for her, the resistance,
the rough treatment. Deep down, she loved being dominated.
   Tim just smiled at her. Mom continued to plead. "NOOOOOO sir. PLEASE. LET ME
GO. I DON’T LIKE THIS."
   Tim’s strong hands gripped her head, holding it in place. He squared up to
her, widening his stance.
   "NOOOOO, GAAAWWWDD, PLEASE Sir. What are you doing?" Mom voice was getting
louder now.
   Tim tugged her hair, tilting her head up, and brandished his cock
threateningly. "You better be quiet or hubby and Mike will hear you bitch," he
said harshly. He began whacking his stiff dick against her face. "You think we
enjoy punishing you?" Tim asked with a broad smile.
   She didn’t give him an answer. Fleshy smacks rang out as he drummed his cock
over her facial features, causing her to wince.
   Tim now looking deep into her eyes. "I asked you a question, bitch."
   Mom blinked up at him over his dick blows. "No sir," she hissed lowering her
voice.
   He let go and reached down to the clothes pins. I could see Tim remove them.
Then, with his fingers, he started squeezing her nipples, twisting them
painfully. Mom was now gasping and her hands gripped Tim’s shaft. With a sigh,
mom’s face showed defeat.
   "I’m sorry, sirs, for removing my choker today at school without permission,"
mom said.
   "What was that?" Tim asked, standing at full height, establishing his control
over her. He placed his hard cock on her face, making her talk with it
dangling over her eyes and mouth.
   "Sirs, I’m sorry I shouldn’t have removed my choker."
   Tim was smiling at her, "Well, based on the hardness of your nipples and your
wet pussy you seem to be enjoying your punishment."
   Without another word, Tim drew his hips back and guided his cock into her
mouth. Mom didn’t resist, gobbling up his young dick eagerly. I guess Dave’s
rough face-fuck had loosened her up. Or maybe she was used to having to
service both of their cocks in one session by now. Either way, she took his
cock without missing a beat.
   And Tim didn’t ease her into it either. He started fucking her face
immediately, triggering mom’s gag reflex. She made strange gurgling sounds
with each thrust.
   "ghugh… gghhh… gggguuugh…"
   "Aaaaaahhhh," Tim sighed, steadily pumping into her face. "Rub my balls," he
ordered.
   Mom moaned and I saw her hands slip between his parted thighs. Tim sighed
sharply as she began massaging his testicles.
   "Oh fuck, squeeze them slut," Tim said breathlessly. "Oh shit, oh shit, oh
shiiiiiit," he hissed, his voice rising.
   Tim grunted and his body trembled. Mom whined in response. He stood stiff as a
board, his body twitching.
   Is he coming already? I wondered. A frothy white ring formed between Tim’s
driving shaft and mom’s stretched lips, confirming my assumption.Wow, he
came so fast, I marveled.she must have sucked him real good.
   I saw a lump in mom’s throat rise, then fall. She was swallowing his load
without even having to be told.
   What a slut, I thought. I wanted to jerk off so bad, but I not in front of
my dad.
   Mom gulped down Tim’s nut as he stepped back and pulled up his pants. Dave
gripped mom’s chin in his hand and made sure she was looking directly in his
eyes. "Remember slut, you belong to us. You will do as we tell you when and
how we want."
   "Yes sir." was all mom said.
   "We’ll be watching the game with your husband and Mike," Dave told mom as they
walked up the stairs.
   As both of the guys came back into the living room, they grinned at me. They
sat down on the couch next to me. Mom came up and went straight to her room.
She probably needed to clean up, so she wouldn’t smell like cum.
   Dad look at them, "Did she help you guys out with your assignment?"
   Dave trying to keep a straight face said, "Yes sir. I think we have an
understanding."
   Dave jumped up from the couch, "Sir we would like to watch more of the game
with you, but we need to get our homework done."
   "I understand. Glad you we’re able to get the help you needed." My dad said
standing up to shake hands with the two of them.
   "Thanks for letting us ask your wife for help," Tim said
   "You two are welcome here anytime you’re just like part of the family," my dad
said as they shook hands.
   With that, both of them were out the door. I sat there thinking how he would
act if he knew they were controlling mom, making her do whatever they wanted,
if he knew his wife had a tummy-full of their hot cum.* * *
   A few days later, I was checking the video feed in the living room. The ladies
were sitting around the table talking. As I listen in mom was telling the
others what Dave and Tim did to her Thursday night.
   "Damn they did that with Jack and Mike in the house?" Sue asked.
   "Yes, I’m sure glad Jack was watching the game. You know he doesn’t hear
anything else going on if it’s a good game," Mom said.
   "I’m not going to take my choker off at school. I sure don’t need those two
assholes coming to my house," Jane said.
   "I wonder if what you did is why we have to be at the school early Monday,"
Kay mused.
   "Who knows. They said they wouldn’t mess with us at school if we kept that
damn choker on. Hope you didn’t ruin that for us Kathy!" Jane added.
   "Damn, I still hate this shit but those huge cocks… I’m hooked on them now.
I don’t want it to end but they can ruin us. You’re right I messed up by
taking that damn choker off," Mom admitted.
   "God I know you’re right I’m also addicted to those big ass cocks. If we don’t
want them fucking us over we better do everything they want from now," Sue
said.
   "I agree with you two. I better go find Mike and fuck him. Kathy, are you
ready to take a few pictures to send Dave so that he knows I did it? I don’t
know what they would come up with for a punishment if I didn’t," Jane said.
   "God I said this before but I sure hope they keep their word keeping
everything a secret," Kay said.
   "I hate the new rule they gave us, because of you Kathy," Sue said.
   "I’m with you, we have to be at the school an hour earlier so they can inspect
what we’re wearing. Plus we can’t go home until they give us permission. Which
means we’ll most likely be there until after football practice," Kay added.
   "I’m just glad that Jack and Mike didn’t come down into the basement. I’d hate
to find out what would’ve happened," mom said.
   "I like to chat more but I have to find Mike," Jane said.
   "He’s up in his room, Jane," Mom informed her. I watched Jane get up and leave
the room. Mom said goodbye to the other ladies.
   I just got the tablet turned off as Jane knocked on my door. As she enter my
room we just looked at each other for a moment. It took us no time at all for
us to get out of our clothes. I pushed Jane on her back on the bed. Grabbing
her ankles spreading her legs wide ramming my cock deep into her already wet
pussy. As I was fucking her with no mercy, I noticed my mom peeking in the
door and taking a few pictures to send to Dave to prove Jane did what she was
told.* * *
   A few weeks later, I noticed a definite upgrade for the group. They were all
wearing outfits that were more upscale than they use to wear at school. They
weren’t slutty but much more revealing. It was part of the dress code for all
female teachers to wear bras, but with some of their outfits, they could get
away without one.
   They also were wearing stockings and high heels. I wasn’t sure if Dave and Tim
were allowing them to wear panties. Each of their dresses and all of the
blouses had low cut neck lines. If you got close enough you got a great view
looking down their blouse. Everyone got to see lots of soft teacher-cleavage.
   As always, I was eating lunch with Dave when he handed me a envelop with money
in it.
   "It’s your share of the money the sluts are paying us. I took out some to pay
your share for the chokers we bought them," Dave told me.
   "Guess you’ve been leaving them alone?" I asked.
   Dave chuckled. "Not really, had to do something after your mom took off her
choker."
   He took his phone out and then showed me pictures of the women. He had them
posing nude in their classrooms. A few had them sitting behind their desk,
some where they were standing looking like they were giving instructions to
the class. A few more pics had them posed throughout their class room. All of
the pictures looked like they were talking to the class even though you never
saw any of the students.
   "What the fuck!!" I shouted getting looks from other class mates.
   "Keep it down man. We don’t need anyone catching a glimpse of what’s on my
phone," Dave said
   "I thought you weren’t going to mess with them at school?" I asked
   "Look we’re leaving them alone, but we had to do something to make sure they
understood who’s the boss. So we made them take some pictures in their
classroom. You know a little insurance in case they want to rebel," Dave said.
   "Damn you’re pushing the limits now," I said.
   "Don’t worry, it’s all under control."* * *
   Our last football game came about and Coach T got all the senior football
players together to thank us for a great year, even though we lost more games
than we won. Dave grabbed my arm.
   "Hey Tim and I are planning a party at Tim’s this Saturday."
   "I’ll be there," I answered.
   On Saturday, the party started around 3 PM. As I was leaving, I noticed my mom
was gone. I figured she was already at Tim’s for the party. Even though I knew
she was most likely at Tim’s, I left her a note letting her know I was going
to be at Tim’s for a party, just in case she wasn’t at Tim’s.
   Arriving at Tim’s I notice I was the first to arrive, as there weren’t any
other cars around. Tim must have noticed me outside because he had the door
open before I even got to it.
   "Hey man glad you got here early," Tim said.
   As I entered the house, I noticed there were four women with hooded masks on.
The hood was made from light material. It covered their whole head with eyes
holes and holes for their noses and mouths. The hoods were numbered one to
four. Each woman wore a skirt and a pull over blouse, with high heels.
   I looked at Tim. "I guess the entertainment is already here."
   "Yeah man, Dave wanted them here early so that he could put masks on them. The
women don’t want anyone to know who they are. Dave had these masks made
special just for our party."
   As I checked them out, I tried to discern who was who. After a bit of
inspection, I recognized each of them from their tits and nipples. After all,
I’d fucked them all. Well, all except mom. I didn’t let on that I knew who
they were as I checked each one out. The women seemed to be nervous, either
because they knew I was there, or maybe they didn’t know why they were there.
   "Well, Tim it sure does hide their identities." I continued to check each lady
out. I knew who they were, but for show I asked, "So who are they?"
   Tim chuckled. "I can’t tell you man. They don’t want anyone to know including
you."
   "So, is this it for the party?" I asked Tim.
   "No, no Dave just wanted you here early in case we didn’t have everything
ready. But as you can see with the help of these fine ladies, we got it all
done."
   Just then Dave walked in, noticing me right away. "Hey Tim, have you
introduced Mike to our entertainment yet?"
   "No, I didn’t. These ladies don’t want anyone to know who they are," Tim
answered with a smirk on his face, damn well knowing I knew them.
   The games we played to keep the ladies from not knowing that I know.
   "Of course, he won’t know their real names. Line up ladies!" Dave ordered. All
the ladies lined up and I knew they all knew me.
   "Now by the numbers!" he barked.
   After the women finally got lined up, Dave introduced them "Mike as you can
tell by the numbers on their mask this is number one, Number two, number
three, and finally number four. And ladies this is Mike a good friend of ours,
and soon yours. Make sure you treat him right tonight or you’ll be punished."
   Each hooded head nodded in agreement.
   "Dave, don’t they talk?" I asked.
   "Well, if they say anything, they think they might be recognized. So they’re
planning on not talking. Not sure if that will work for them all night.
Alright back to work!" Dave said.
   A few minutes later Tim’s and Dave’s guests started to show up. Tim welcomed
each guest as they walked into his home. I didn’t recognize any of the men.
Not sure how Dave knew these guys but who really cares. We’re here to have
fun.
   By the time they were all in the house there was 12 young men. They all looked
to be in their 20’s or older. I noticed that all of the men seemed to enjoy
the sexy women even with their mask on. Dave explained to them the masks.
   He showed them the mask were all fastened with a strap that was locked behind
each women head. I didn’t notice the locks when I was checking out the women.
Dave said the locks were there to make sure no one pulled off their hoods.
Some of the guys looked disappointed.
   Tim turned on some music and the women started dancing with the guests. The
dancing was very intense for the women. They were given a break between songs
as each guy wanted a dance.
   "Ok guys let’s get the real party going. The sluts are here to play and will
do anything you want," Dave yelled over the music.
   One guy yelled out, "Is there anything they will not do?"
   Dave chuckled. "If they refuse, just let me know."
   "You did say they’re all married?" someone else asked.
   "Yes, they are married."
   The guys split up into groups of three and took one women for each group. The
party became one huge fuck fest / gangbang.
   I watch two guys surround my mom while the third guy undressed her. After they
had her naked all three guys made sure they checked her body out.
   "Damn this married slut sure does have lovely tits," one guy said.
   He proceeded to fondle her boobs, lightly pulling on them. This caused the
other two to start grabbing her tits which was a lot rougher than the first
guy. I felt aroused as I watch them man-handle her.
   They pushed her down to her knees, unbuttoning and pulling out their cocks for
her to suck. I noticed mom’s head turn my way and hesitated. One of the guys
stepped up to her, turning her hood and putting his cock through the mouth
hole. Each of them seemed eager to have their cock sucked and mom’s head was
passed between them. I watched her hooded head bob frantically. Each cock came
away wet and smeared with her signature pink lipstick.
   "Enough of this, I need to be fucked!" my mom shouted out breaking her
silence.
   The three guys needed no further invitation and pushed her down onto her hands
and knees on the floor. One guy shoved his cock into her mouth. The second one
hurried to get behind her and penetrated her with a grunt. The third was too
slow and would have to wait. He reluctantly looked on, stroking his cock.
   They were saying things to her, but I couldn’t hear what was being said. She
was responding mostly with grunts and moans as their sexual intensity
increased. The three guys fucking mom rotated. As the second guy entered her,
I saw her let the cock she was sucking out of her mouth. She lowered her head
to the floor and I think she came on one of the guys' cocks. She climaxed,
gasping. The guys high-fived the one guy in her pussy, as if they were
competing to make her come.
   Mom stirred, lifting her head. "I want all three of you to fuck me at once,"
she declared loudly.
   The guys helped mom get to her feet. The only thing they left on her when they
undressed her were the hood and her high heels. One of the guys got down on
the floor with his dick sticking up in the air. Mom carefully stepped her
heels over him. She straddled him as she lowered herself onto him, cowgirl
style.
   She pumped her body up and down a few times on him as he gripped her ass. I
could see his shaft sticking into her, shiny and wet. His friend stepped up
behind mom and I heard her tell him to put lube on her asshole. He made her
spit in his hand, then he spit in his hand. He applied their mixed spit to
their asshole, then pushed his cock in. He did not seem to go easy.
   Mom was moaning loudly, but was quickly cut off as the third guy stepped up to
her and brought his cock to her mouth. She eagerly started blowing him.
   The three guys let her control the action for a few moments, but before long,
they were all thrusting into her body wildly. Mom lost control and I heard her
try to scream, but her mouth was stuffed with cock. I guess she was coming
again.
   As they fucked her, the three friends were conversing softly. I couldn’t hear
the details, but they all seemed to be increasing their pace steadily.
   The guy fucking her ass began nodding his head in time with his thrusts. Each
of the other guys watched him and matched his pace.
   He said, "five…four…three…"
   It reminded me of the New Year’s Eve count-down.
   He continued, "…two…one…NOW!"
   On queue each guy slammed into mom. They must all be coming at the same time.
Mom’s body wobbled and shook as they powerfully blasted her full of sperm. I
couldn’t believe mom was taking a load of cum from three different men at the
same time.
   The guys seemed proud of themselves as they recovered, pretty much ignoring
mom. They had another brief discussion, then all pulled out of her. The guy on
the ground got up and just when I thought they were done, they just rotated
holes.
   I watched my mom again get triple-fucked. The guys were relentless and after a
second coordinated climax, they again rotated holes. I couldn’t tear my eyes
away and watched three guys each pump three loads into her. They all made sure
to put their cum in her mouth, pussy, and asshole.
   After watching all that, I needed a release. I looked around to see all four
women being ganged bang. Dave and Tim had joined in. I decided I better join
in also. I joined the group fucking Sue.
   Since I was late, I only got to shoot two loads into Sue before we moved to
Kay. I enjoyed the comradery of my group of guys as we each dumped a load in
each of their holes. We weren’t as synchronized as the guys I’d watched fuck
mom, but by the time we got to Jane, we’d synched up pretty good. All of us
simultaneously came in Jane, then rotated. She took each of our loads, in each
hole.
   By the time I got to her asshole, she was pretty loose and there was lots of
cum in there. All of the party guests must have gangbang experience, except
for me, as I was done after ejaculating eight times. They moved on to my mom
and I took a break. I wasn’t ready to fuck her yet. It seemed like hours
before we finished. By the end, all the women were well-used. They were
thoroughly fucked in every hole and were flushed from their own orgasms.
   Needless to say, I’d never seen so much cum. Most of the guys liked to come
inside, but there was still slippery spunk everywhere.
   The woman had truly surrendered to the domination of Dave and Tim. This
fuck-fest was the final piece of their submission to these two guys. No longer
would they refuse Dave and Tim’s demands. I don’t think they wanted to
anymore.
   After all the guests left, Dave ordered, "ok sluts crawl over here to us."
   As the four teachers got within a couple of feet away from us they each rose
up and put their hands behind their heads.
   Together the four women said, "Sirs, we await your command."
   Dave looked at me. "See we have these sluts trained well Mike."
   "I see you do. Are you going to tell me who they are?" I said, still
pretending that I didn’t know who these sluts were.
   "No, they don’t want anyone to know," Dave said with a chuckle.
   As I was walking out the door Dave looked over the ladies still wearing their
mask. "I think it’s time we have you four recruit us some more ladies for our
little harem. I think we want you to recruit Mrs. Jones and Mrs. Smith."
   I was out the door before I could hear anything else. I knew Mrs. Jones was a
young sexy new first year teacher who taught math and Mrs. Smith wasn’t a new
teacher but new at our school. She taught history.
   I didn’t think much about it until right before Christmas vacation when I saw
Mrs. Jones and Mrs. Smith wearing a black choker with the letter D - T - S on
it. Damn I needed to get with Dave and find out when I was going to get to
fuck them.

Взято из Флибусты, http://flibusta.net/b/667512
